Name                                         Timothy Crownshaw Crownshaw

Email





A Zero Carbon Act is important to me         I strongly support the introduction of the Zero Carbon Act in New
because...                                   Zealand. Decarbonisation is an essential step for all modern
                                             economies if we are to preserve a liveable planet and hope for the

                                             future.

Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation?
Q2. If the Government sets a 2050            The target should be to reduce total greenhouse gases as far as

target now, which is the best target for     possible by 2050 while meeting basic social criteria for all New
New Zealand?                                 Zealanders.

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its          By using domestic emissions reductions only (including from new
targets?                                     forest planting). This is essential as carbon credits have very little
                                             credibility in actually reducing emissions.

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow        As a doctoral student in the field of ecological economics, I am
the 2050 target to be revised if             concerned that decarbonisation goals are unlikely to be achieved if

circumstances change?                        treated as secondary to current narrowly defined economic goals (as
                                             measured by GDP or the unemployment rate). For this reason, the
                                             Zero Carbon Act must clearly state that decarbonisation is to be the
                                             primary social objective for the foreseeable future, which must not
                                             be allowed to be subverted by changes in economic circumstances.

                                             The ability to revise the 2050 target in light of major changes in
                                             scientific understanding or international agreements should be
                                             permitted.

Q5. The Government proposes that
three emissions budgets of five years        Projected emissions budgets should exist to cover all 5 year periods
each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be to 2050 (obviously with varying levels of detail and confidence) in
in place at any given time. Do you agree order to maintain a consistent and visible policy commitment.

with this proposal?

Q6 - Q7. Should the Government be able No increase in carbon budgets should be permitted, unless the basic
to alter emissions budgets?                  scientific consensus changes in response to new information.
                                             Decreases in the carbon budget should be allowed if democratically
                                             supported.

Q8. Do you agree with the proposed           The Government and the Climate Commission should take the
considerations that the Government and following factors into consideration when advising on and setting

the Climate Commission will need to          budgets:
take into account when advising on and       • scientific consensus regarding climate change
setting budgets?                             • technology relevant to climate change (existing, proven and
                                             scalable technology only)
                                             • social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on fuel

                                             poverty, together with proposed remediation strategies
                                             • energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy
                                             supplies, the carbon and energy intensity of the economy, and the
                                             processes of socio-metabolic transformation - this includes the
                                             heterogeneity of energy forms and the existing and potential forms

                                             of power capacity in the New Zealand economy.
Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require

Governments to set out plans within a        Yes
certain timeframe to achieve the
emissions budgets?

Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet
budgets? For example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?
Q11. The Government has proposed that
the Climate Change Commission advises
                                            Yes - the Commission must be immune from political pressure in
on and monitors New Zealand's               order to function effectively.
progress towards its goals. Do you
agree with these functions?

Q12. What role do you think the Climate
Change Commission should have in            The NZ ETS should be scrapped or de-emphasised in favour of
relation to the New Zealand Emissions       strong, progressive and revenue-neutral carbon taxation.
Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)?

Q13. The Government has proposed that The most critical expertise which is currently lacking is ecological

Climate Change Commissioners need to        and biophysical economics (as opposed to mainstream neoclassical
have a range of essential and desirable     economics), with a focus on the complex processes of socio-
expertise. Do you agree with the            metabolic transformations and the role of energy in economic
proposed expertise?                         production.

Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill
should cover adapting to climate            Yes - this will need to have a provision for flexible and rapid
                                            responses to changes in observed climate impacts.
change?
Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do

you agree with the proposed functions?

Q16. Should the Government explore
setting up a targeted adaptation
reporting power that could see some         Yes
organisations share information on their
exposure to climate change risks?
Further comments                                Recent mainstream environmentalist commentary is often quick to
                                                highlight the potential economic benefits of shifting towards a zero-

                                                carbon society. This may be true in the initial stages of the transition,
                                                but full decarbonisation will require transforming the ways in which
                                                we live, produce, and consume from the ground up, which will
                                                involve unavoidable and profound disruptions. The cutting edge of
                                                biophysical and ecological economics research is discovering deep

                                                and previously obscured links between energy supply, the main
                                                source of greenhouse gas emissions, and the creation of economic
                                                value (Ockwell 2008, Kümmel, Ayres Robert, and Lindenberger 2010,
                                                Ayres and Warr 2009, Foxon 2017). Net energy in particular has a
                                                close association with the generation of a flow of societal benefits

                                                (Lambert et al. 2014). As such, to a first approximation, greenhouse
                                                gas emissions are inseparable from employment and income at the
                                                aggregate level without a radical economic transformation. The
                                                metabolism of society as a whole remains intrinsically dependent on
                                                large quantities of carbon-intensive fuels; a link which will not be

                                                easily broken. Therefore, there will be no transition without economic
                                                sacrifice.
                                                Short-term economic concerns must not be allowed to forestall or
                                                derail progress towards a zero-carbon society. It is also essential that
                                                the social consequences of the transition, most notably in the form of
                                                unemployment, are adequately addressed. If too many are left

                                                behind, the transition will fail. In summary, a successful transition
                                                towards a zero-carbon society in New Zealand requires 1) a non-
                                                negotiable commitment to achieve decarbonisation within the
                                                coming decades, 2) an understanding that that transition will
                                                produce a significant level of economic disruption, and 3) the

                                                dedication of public resources to support individuals and groups
                                                experiencing difficulties as a consequence of the transition.

                                                References
                                                Ayres, Robert U, and Benjamin Warr. 2009. The economic growth

                                                engine: how energy and work drive material prosperity. Cheltenham,
                                                UK; Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar.
                                                Foxon, Timothy J. 2017. Energy and Economic Growth: Why we need
                                                a new pathway to prosperity: Routledge.
                                                Kümmel, Reiner, U. Ayres Robert, and Dietmar Lindenberger. 2010.

                                                Thermodynamic laws, economic methods and the productive power
                                                of energy. In Journal of Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics.
                                                Lambert, Jessica G., Charles A. S. Hall, Stephen Balogh, Ajay Gupta,
                                                and Michelle Arnold. 2014. "Energy, EROI and quality of life." Energy
                                                Policy 64:153-167. doi: dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2013.07.001.

                                                Ockwell, David G. 2008. "Energy and economic growth: Grounding
                                                our understanding in physical reality." Energy Policy 36 (12):4600-
                                                4604. doi: dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2008.09.005.
