Name                                       Ron Hutchings

Email





A Zero Carbon Act is important to me       Climate change, if not stopped, has the potential to destroy
because...                                 civilisation, and very possibly the human species. I regard that as a
                                           bad thing.
Q1. What process should the                      Q1. Dated targets, typically of the form x% reduction in emissions
Government use to set a new emissions            from sector z by year yy are commonplace, and may have their

reduction target in legislation?                 place, but are not easy to enforce. I feel that such things are best
                                                 treated as merely a broad framework, and that the law needs to drill
                                                 down a level deeper and specify particular technologies and dates. I
                                                 feel that emissions trading schemes are not the right tool for this
                                                 problem, based on the performance of such things to date. The

                                                 European efforts on those lines have had some good effects, but
                                                 nowhere near the scale required.
                                                 Making targets “Legally Binding” is not particularly meaningful if no-
                                                 one can be held to account when the targets are not met – so suing
                                                 the government of the day won’t reduce the amount of petrol burnt

                                                 in cars one whit – to achieve actual change, the power of the state
                                                 needs to be engaged directly with individual emitters (while keeping
                                                 the needs for fairness and preserving the overall social contract in
                                                 mind.)


                                                 This need for state intervention is also because such a detailed
                                                 schedule gives clearer guidance to the markets as to what to expect
                                                 when. Saying “We will decarbonise transport by 30% by 2040” does
                                                 not focus the minds of decision-makers as much as hearing
                                                 something like “According to schedule C of the act (Or possibly
                                                 regulations made under section z of the act), hydrocarbon fuels,

                                                 including but not limited to marine bunker diesel may no longer be
                                                 used to propel coastal vessels over 1,000 tons after 1 July 2025”.
                                                 That means Bluebridge and interislander and other costal shipping
                                                 will know with certainly when they need to convert to ammonia fuel
                                                 (There is really nothing else with the energy density, compatibility

                                                 with existing engine designs, handling safety and other necessary
                                                 attributes to substitute for carbon-based marine fuels), and then the
                                                 ports who need to build new tankage and pipes will know when they
                                                 will need to built, the people who need to build hydrogen-t-
                                                 -ammonia factories will know when their markets will start, and the

                                                 people who will electrolyse water to make the hydrogen know when
                                                 to start building, and the folk who need to supply the extra electricity
                                                 know when to start building their wind farms, and so on. And that is a
                                                 simple example - an ETS just won’t get all the parties involved
                                                 working together constructively and to a schedule. The invisible hand

                                                 of Adam Smith is too slow for this crisis, and too uncordinated.

                                                 Similarly, there should be a definite date when Tiwai point will be
                                                 barred from using carbon anodes. Then they can plan when to start
                                                 licencing an inert anode process (from, e.g., Rusal although there are

                                                 other companies holding comparable patents), when to start pilot
                                                 production, how to capture the added green value in their
                                                 international marketing, etc.

                                                 Likewise, electrifying transport requires complex and in-depth co-

                                                 ordination between the electricity-supply industry (including
                                                 distribution networks), the auto industry, the people who build
                                                 charging networks, the ways we currently rely on petrol taxes and
                                                 RUCs, etc. Even the car wrecker industry needs to change to recycle
                                                 the aluminium and copper in electric cars, as well as their batteries.


                                                 In summary, the required transitions are not simple and require the
                                                 sort of expert multidisciplinary teams to plan and direct that only
                                                 central government can support, along with enough authority to get
                                                 their results implemented.

                                                 The resulting detailed and staged direction on dates, industry by
                                                 industry, must of course minimise and balance disruption to
                                                 commerce and society overall – another reason why central
                                                 government must drive it.


                                                 Anything less will achieve little more than greenwashing.
Q2. If the Government sets a 2050                We should aim for total net zero emissions as soon as possible, but if
target now, which is the best target for         it becomes politically and economically viable, should aim to be net

New Zealand?                                     negative before 2050. (My belief is that the technology exists, or
                                                 soon will exist, to go net negative slightly before 2050, but a project
                                                 to implement it all may or may not be economically and politically
                                                 achievable by 2050. Still, if we limit our ambitions before we start,
                                                 we certainly won’t go negative. We ought to be aiming, ultimately, to

                                                 remove all the carbon we have already emitted (Including the forests
                                                 harvested before European settlement, although they are a tiny part
                                                 of the total), so as to put the climate back the way it was before
                                                 humans started to interfere

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its              Mainly, by reducing major emissions domestically – generally via
targets?                                         regulation. Secondly, by taxing minor emitting activities at a rate
                                                 that will fund enough tree planting to absorb those emissions. We

                                                 should also tax imports according to their emissions content, while
                                                 providing rebates on exports, so that our emissions taxes do not
                                                 impact our export markets. This would be akin to the GST refunds on
                                                 exports, although calculating the amount would be harder, as it
                                                 would not always be a fixed percentage, but vary with the nature of

                                                 the goods or services.
                                                 There should definitely NOT be any way for any substantial emitter
                                                 to continue emitting by buying some sort of paperwork certificate
                                                 from anywhere – the idea of trading emissions rights implies that
                                                 emissions are in some measure acceptable – a flawed notion, which

                                                 is at heart immoral. There should be no creation of emission rights
                                                 by a stroke of the government’s pen - only actual negative emissions
                                                 (tree planting in New Zealand) should be able to be balanced against
                                                 the inevitable residual minor positive emissions – and even that has
                                                 to be limited, as we need our negative emissions to absorb net CO2,

                                                 not just for balancing against positive emissions. An emissions tax
                                                 should ramp up gradually, to spread economic impacts, but the ramp
                                                 should be clearly signalled and enshrined in legislation, so that
                                                 people can plan, and to reduce the efforts spent lobbying for delays
                                                 and exemptions.

                                                 Once major emitters have ben regulated away, and remaining minor
                                                 emitters have started paying the matching afforestation tax, the
                                                 apparatus for major state intervention can largely be dismantled,
                                                 and the afforestation tax administered by IRD. Slowly increasing that
                                                 tax till it funds enough afforestation to make us significantly net

                                                 negative as a country could then follow after 2050.

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow            The notion of a target is not all that helpful. While it might be
the 2050 target to be revised if                 politically the best that can be achieved, the nature of the actual
circumstances change?                            problem means it would be best tackled by something more
                                                 resembling a war effort – working at the maximum possible pace on
                                                 all possible fronts, and treating any extra progress as an opportunity

                                                 to increase the rate of progress. If there is a goal, the temptation is
                                                 to ease off efforts if the goal seems comfortably in sight.

                                                 It is also clear that globally, we must as a species reach zero
                                                 emissions by 2050, and go negative thereafter, if we are to have

                                                 much of a civilisation left by 2100.

                                                 It is also clear that any player, individual or state, in a position to
                                                 make a greater or faster contribution should do so, since there will
                                                 be many who can not contribute meaningfully or rapidly.


                                                 So I am happy to set an initial goal of net zero by 2050, on the basis
                                                 that if we don’t manage that, its game over. But I would like there to
                                                 be a mechanism for that timeline to be shortened whenever the
                                                 opportunity for such shortening is identified – which will “keep the
                                                 pressure on”, and let us move on sooner to the negative-emissions

                                                 future we need to develop as a follow-on.
Q5. The Government proposes that                First, there is a distinction between emissions elimination by 2050
three emissions budgets of five years           and a carbon budget – you could in theory get to December 2049

each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be with no emissions reductions and then go to zero overnight. Or you
in place at any given time. Do you agree could reduce sharply now. Or you could reduce gradually over the
with this proposal?                             30-odd years we have to go. An emissions budget should be an
                                                outcome, once the maximum rate of reduction that is technically,
                                                economically and politically achievable has been scheduled. If it’s

                                                convenient to publish that in 5-year windows, by all means – but I’d
                                                expect the planning process to know what is going to be achieved,
                                                and when, at much finer detail than that.

                                                Second, as per my response to Q1 above, I think any overall budgets

                                                need to be broken down in a highly detailed way, both by emissions
                                                source/industry and by date, both to make sure they are practical
                                                and achievable and economically sustainable, and to make the
                                                relevant actors aware of what actions are required of them and
                                                when.


                                                But finally, yes, the near-term parts of the plan will need to be
                                                developed in greater detail, and a 5-year horizon for the most
                                                detailed projections with a further 10-years for more broad planning
                                                seems quite appropriate.


                                                It will doubtless be necessary to revise the schedule in light of
                                                experience, but I see no reason why a reasonably clear draft
                                                schedule for the entire period out to 2050 could not be produced
                                                within about 6 months, and then revised every few years. There
                                                would need to be consultation with industry, of course – if the

                                                planning team knows the depreciation to date and currently planned
                                                lifetime of Fontera’s coal-fired boilers, that can be taken into account
                                                when determining a regulated end-date for coal-boilers in the dairy
                                                industry – but in general, the required overall technological and
                                                economic path is, in my view, quite straightforward. (Of course, I

                                                have spent several thousand hours researching deep
                                                decarbonisation technologies – others may not yet see the path as
                                                clearly as I do.)

Q6 - Q7. Should the Government be able As per Q5, I see actual emissions forecasts as falling out of a more
to alter emissions budgets?                     detailed planning exercise. So I would see them changing whenever
                                                the plans are revised. The point to note is that if it’s not tied to a

                                                plan to get there, a budget is merely pious intentions, and of only
                                                political relevance. And the planet doesn’t care about our politics – it
                                                only responds to reality.

Q8. Do you agree with the proposed              I agree that the Government and the Climate Commission should
considerations that the Government and take the following factors into consideration when advising on and
the Climate Commission will need to             setting budgets:

take into account when advising on and          • economic circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on the
setting budgets?                                economy, as well as the competitiveness of particular sectors of the
                                                economy
                                                • scientific information regarding climate change,
                                                • technology relevant to climate change

                                                • fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on
                                                taxation, public spending and public borrowing
                                                • social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on fuel
                                                poverty
                                                • energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy
                                                supplies and

                                                the carbon and energy intensity of the economy.
Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require        Yes - we must learn from the mistakes of the UK's Climate Change
Governments to set out plans within a          Act and specify a strict time frame for producing a plan. Further, that

certain timeframe to achieve the               plan needs to be seamlessly connected to actual action on the
emissions budgets?                             ground – the plan needs to have clear costed solutions to all the
                                               major emissions sources, along with priorities and target dates for
                                               implementation.
                                               In a similar way, we should learn from the historic failures of various

                                               market-based interventions, such as carbon prices and cap-an-
                                               -trade schemes, which have not produced more than token
                                               reductions in emissions (although they have permitted certain
                                               traders to make money from operating the markets). A deeply
                                               interventionist approach is called for, with the state mandating a

                                               multitude of actions at a detailed level. An act similar in sprit and
                                               scope to the Emergency Regulations Act 1939 or the Civil Defence
                                               Emergency Management Act 2002 seems to me to be called for,
                                               albeit with different, emissions-focused, objectives.

Q10. What are the most important               The Government’s policy plans to meet emission targets should be
issues for the Government to consider          comprehensive, fair, cost-effective and environmentally sustainable.
in setting plans to meet budgets? For          The most important issues will have to do with redistributing costs

example, who do we need to work with,          and benefits. For example, renewable electricity (wind, mainly, in
what else needs to be considered?              NZ’s situation) is likely to be cheaper, overall, than the gas and coal
                                               it will displace, while reducing emissions from farming is likely to
                                               come at a net cost. Can these two be balanced out somehow? The
                                               overall cost of going zero-carbon may be close to zero, but there will

                                               be significant costs to particular sectors. The risk of stranded assets
                                               in various industries will be a second major consideration, requiring
                                               careful attention to timing. Consultation with industry will be vital,
                                               although avoiding industry capture will also be important.

Q11. The Government has proposed that No. Advice and monitoring are not enough.
the Climate Change Commission advises Difficult and contentious issues like this should be set up with broad

on and monitors New Zealand's                  policy guidelines, and then the politicians should delegate the day-
progress towards its goals. Do you             to-day operations to some suitable statutory body. I like the way
agree with these functions?                    Pharmac works, and would love to see more like it – for example an
                                               “externalities commission” could determine if we need more or less
                                               tax on sugar, alcohol, petrol, tobacco, plastic bags, etc. to fully fund

                                               their social costs, without politicians needing to get in involved in the
                                               detail. In the current context, I would give wide-ranging powers to a
                                               commission to mandate dates when particular emissions sources
                                               would become illegal and/or would need to start paying emission
                                               levies (Which would need to be enough to fund forest planting

                                               sufficient to fully offset the emissions in question).
                                               The ETS alternative opens the prospect of decades of lobbying and
                                               political wrangling as special interests try to influence the process.
                                               It’s too urgent and important to let it be constantly in the political
                                               arena.

Q12. What role do you think the Climate        The NZ ETS should be abandoned in favour of direct intrusive and
Change Commission should have in               disruptive state regulation of individual emitting activities. The

relation to the New Zealand Emissions          necessary bureaucracy might well be called a climate change
Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)?                       commission. For emitters that cannot practicably be tackled by
                                               regulation, a carbon tax should replace the ETS, with the tax set
                                               sufficient to fund enough afforestation to fully offset the emissions –
                                               perhaps, after 2050, even more than a mere 100% offset to take us

                                               into negative net emissions.
Q13. The Government has proposed that I agree with the following collective expertise:
Climate Change Commissioners need to          • climate change policy (including emissions trading)

have a range of essential and desirable       • resource economics and impacts (including social impacts, labour
expertise. Do you agree with the              markets and distribution)
proposed expertise?                           • climate and environmental science
                                              • risk management
                                              • engineering and/or infrastructure

                                              • community engagement and communications.
                                              • business competitiveness
                                              • knowledge of the public and private innovation and technology
                                              development system.


                                              I think expertise in public health is also important.
Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill           No.
should cover adapting to climate                 Adaptation to climate change is a quite different thing to emissions

change?                                          reduction, and should be covered by quite separate measures. It
                                                 may be that a distinct adaptation bureaucracy is not needed, and it
                                                 can be layered into other government organisations.

                                                 The key differences as I see them:

                                                 1. Different Constraints.
                                                 Emissions Reduction will be limited mainly by political will – it is very
                                                 hard to make even small demands of New Zealand people when the
                                                 benefit will accrue to the entire global population, and not
                                                 immediately, but some years down the track. They will not see the

                                                 point in personal change “No one raindrop ever feels responsible for
                                                 the flood”.
                                                 Adaptation will be mainly limited by the requirements – until we
                                                 know if we are heading for 3 degrees or 5 degrees by 2100, for
                                                 example, we won’t know what to plan for. Even then, the actual

                                                 outcomes are not at all well understood as yet – the IPCC reports
                                                 hare such heavily political documents that much of the truth is
                                                 filtered out. It would be unwise to plan based on either the
                                                 deliberately understated IPCC data or the worst-case scenarios put
                                                 about by climate alarmists.


                                                 2 – Different time-frames.
                                                 Reduction activity needs to ramp up immediately, limited mainly by
                                                 how fast capital can be deployed, and the political will. Adaptation is
                                                 pretty pointless until climate change effects really start to bite. We
                                                 may need to abandon South Dunedin, much of the Miramar

                                                 peninsular and various other low-lying places by about 2070, but at
                                                 the moment the only action needed is to stop pouring new capital
                                                 into those places, and local bodies and ordinary good business
                                                 judgement already have that one mostly in hand. Serious capital
                                                 won’t be needed for decades, and the emission-reduction battle will

                                                 have been won or lost well before then. Until then, a little PR/advice
                                                 is really all that is needed – if people knew that sea-level rise
                                                 estimates in the IPCC reports exclude Antarctic melting because
                                                 those figures are deemed too uncertain, but that an extra 2 meters
                                                 by 2100 due to that cause is quite possible, maybe Foodstuffs

                                                 wouldn’t have built the pack-n-save in Petone. Similarly, the fact that
                                                 things will keep on getting worse after 2100 is not often publicised –
                                                 but CO2 takes many decades to work up to it’s full effect. But in
                                                 general, adaptation is not the most urgent problem.


                                                 3 – Political flavour.
                                                 Emissions reduction involves making demands on people. The
                                                 politics will be about standing up to special pleading for exemptions
                                                 and delays. Adaptation involves resourcing people to make changes
                                                 that, by then, they will clearly see the need for. The political flavour

                                                 will be for extra handouts for people who knowingly made bad
                                                 decisions and want to be compensated for their stranded assets. I
                                                 believe the policy and institutions needed to deal with these different
                                                 situations are distinctly different.


                                                 4 – Scale
                                                 Emissions reduction is typically estimated as very much cheaper that
                                                 adaptation in most global studies. I don’t have any NZ-specific
                                                 numbers, and our geography seems to indicate that impacts (and so
                                                 presumably costs) here will be less than in many places.

                                                 Nevertheless, it seems likely that the adaptation effort, when it
                                                 comes, will need to be several times larger than the reduction effort,
                                                 and require correspondingly large capital commitments. Probably a
                                                 quite different organisation will be needed to control and/or co-
                                                 ordinate it, because of that alone.
Q15. The Government has proposed a             As per Q14, I don’t think adaptation is an urgent issue. While the
number of new functions to help us             proposals

adapt to climate change. Do you agree          (
with the proposed functions?                   • a national climate change risk assessment
                                               • a national adaptation plan
                                               • regular review of progress towards implementing the national
                                               adaptation plan

                                               • an adaptation reporting power)

                                               seem unobjectionable, I don’t see them as crucial at this time.
                                               Pursuing them may divert energy from the important task of
                                               reducing emissions, however, so I definitely think that, if they are to

                                               be pursued, it should be by some other arm of government.
Q16. Should the Government explore             I believe all central and local government organisations should

setting up a targeted adaptation               analyse and report their climate risks annually. But I would not
reporting power that could see some            mandate that on the private sector. (The stock exchange may well
organisations share information on their make it a listing requirement someday, of course. And/or the
exposure to climate change risks?              accountants might eventually require something in annual accounts
                                               – but I think this can be left to the private sector.)

Further comments                               As you can see, I favour highly interventionist direct action by the

                                               state, not namby-pamby emissions trading schemes that,
                                               historically, have achieved little or nothing. It is too easy for powerful
                                               vested interests to first influence the rules and then game such
                                               schemes, or for governments to back off when the economic impacts
                                               in some sector become politically painful. I’d like my daughter to

                                               have a viable planet to live out her life, and I see no other way to
                                               achieve that than attacking climate change urgently with the full
                                               resources of the sovereign power.

                                               While a full-on attack on NZ’s emissions may not make much global

                                               difference directly, the moral power of our example may ultimately
                                               inspire more action in other countries, and so repay NZ’s investment
                                               handsomely. But speed is of the essence.
