Name                                                              Samantha Walker

Email





A Zero Carbon Act is important to me because...                   Because we are already 30 years too late doing this. The science is increasingly indicating that

                                                                  1.5 degrees of warming will be reached by 2040s, which means we have only a few years –
                                                                  probably as little a decade – to make deep, sustained emissions cuts.

Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new           The Government should set a target for 2050 in legislation now, but set an ambitious goal aiming
emissions reduction target in legislation?                        for carbon zero by 2040.

Q2. If the Government sets a 2050 target now, which is the Net zero long-lived gases and stabilised short-lived gases: but only if methane is first cut deeply
best target for New Zealand?                                      and fast, to a level supported by science, and if fossil methane is put in the same basket as the
                                                                  other fossil fuels.


                                                                  I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as
                                                                  impactful as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-
                                                                  lived gases to sustainable levels.

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets?                      By using domestic emissions reductions only (including from new forest planting).

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be The 2050 target should not be altered in response to “economic changes” as this undermines its
revised if circumstances change?                                  long-term certainty. However, the ability to revise the 2050 target in light of major changes in

                                                                  scientific understanding or international agreements should be permitted.
Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions

budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years)      yes - I agree with 5-year budgets set 10-15 years in advance, so that 3 are in effect at all times.
be in place at any given time. Do you agree with this
proposal?

Q6 - Q7. Should the Government be able to alter emissions         No - emissions budgets should not be altered in response to “economic changes” as this
budgets?                                                          undermines their long-term certainty. However, the ability to revise budgets in light of major
                                                                  changes in scientific understanding or international agreements should be permitted.

Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that            I agree that the Government and the Climate Commission should take the following factors into

the Government and the Climate Commission will need to            consideration when advising on and setting budgets:
take into account when advising on and setting budgets?           • scientific knowledge regarding climate change
                                                                  • technology relevant to climate change
                                                                  • economic circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on the

                                                                  economy, as well as the competitiveness of particular sectors of the economy
                                                                  • fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and
                                                                  public borrowing
                                                                  • social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on fuel poverty
                                                                  • energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy supplies and

                                                                  the carbon and energy intensity of the economy.

Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to            Yes - we must learn from the mistakes of the UK's Climate Change Act and specify a strict time
set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the           frame for producing a plan.
emissions budgets?
Q10. What are the most important issues for the                       The Government’s policy plans to meet emission budgets should be comprehensive, fair, cost-

Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets?              effective, environmentally sustainable, and reflect a commitment to Te Tiriti o Waitangi.
For example, who do we need to work with, what else
needs to be considered?                                               Four key issues to consider are:
                                                                      1. Decarbonising buildings: Adjusting current building standards and codes to support future
                                                                      carbon targets. A focus on the following areas could deliver positive carbon reduction outcomes:

                                                                      a) All new building stock be mandated to adhere to green building codes and meet sustainability
                                                                      criteria. The minimum mandatory requirement be at least Home Star 6, in terms of energy
                                                                      efficiency. Future-proofing new builds should be a primary consideration in terms of capturing
                                                                      the potential for low carbon emission energy generation and storage (i.e. solar conduit battery
                                                                      use and electric vehicle charging capacity in all new builds).

                                                                      b) The existing housing stock of 1.8 million homes - 800,000 of which are currently not
                                                                      adequately insulated - represents a significant opportunity and challenge in terms of reducing
                                                                      emissions, with particular regard to Government’s recent legislation relating to mandatory
                                                                      heating requirements.

                                                                      These new mandates, coupled with a potential shortage of affordable insulation and energy
                                                                      efficient heating appliances, suggests that energy-related emissions may be exacerbated by an
                                                                      initial supply shock (where demand outstrips supply). Government should therefore consider
                                                                      whether the existing policy framework is fit-for-purpose in terms of transitioning to a low carbon
                                                                      economy and whether New Zealand be looking to other frameworks i.e. that of the UK where

                                                                      energy rating systems have been introduced, and where subsidies and tax reliefs are leveraged
                                                                      to stimulate investment into and market growth of insulation and energy efficiency products.
                                                                      c) In view of the forthcoming Building Code review, building standards such as H1 Energy
                                                                      Efficiency Standard (NZS 421:2009), should be reviewed with the objective of mandating
                                                                      minimum standards that deliver carbon savings through energy efficient buildings. The current

                                                                      requirements are currently inadequate and should be tightened.
                                                                      d) Introducing a Home Star minimum standard for existing homes – rental homes in particular, as
                                                                      a means of improving the energy efficiency of existing building stock, while simultaneously
                                                                      addressing social and environmental equity issues, given that rentals tend to be maintained to a
                                                                      lower standard than owner occupied homes.

                                                                      2. Renewables and clean tech: Leveraging appropriate policy tools to support Governments long-
                                                                      term carbon reduction target through renewable energy generation and Electric Vehicle (EV)
                                                                      charging infrastructure.
                                                                      For example, manage the anticipated largescale uptake of EVs and associated energy demand

                                                                      management, subsidies and taxes could be leveraged by:
                                                                      - creating an environment conducive to fast-tracking much needed investment in EV charging
                                                                      infrastructure and incentivising the uptake of EVs in the mainstream / middle / low income
                                                                      market through making 2nd hand EVs as affordable as 2nd hand internal combustion engine
                                                                      vehicles.

                                                                      - supporting the build out of distributed energy with energy storage, and/or district heating and
                                                                      cooling (with storage)
                                                                      - sidestepping a potential demand crunch on existing energy sources, transmission and grid
                                                                      infrastructure.
                                                                      - increasing low carbon utility-scale renewable energy generation (i.e. fast tracking consented

                                                                      utility-scale onshore and offshore wind and ground mounted solar arrays, hydro energy and
                                                                      more).
                                                                      Encourage investment into infrastructure that supports nascent technologies such as - hydrogen
                                                                      fuel cells
                                                                      Domestic food security: Transport emissions associated with increased food imports will

                                                                      negatively weight the carbon budget. A recent report from HortNZ indicates that on the current
                                                                      population growth trajectory, demand will outstrip future supply of domestic production by 2020.
                                                                      Domestic food supply is pivotal to carbon targets being met, given that food represents the
                                                                      greatest portion of consumption emissions (32% of Auckland’s household emissions according to

                                                                      the 2014 report by Motu Economic Research– Greenhouse Gas Emissions New Zealand: A
                                                                      preliminary Consumption-based analysis (Romanos, Kerr and Will); and food and restaurants
                                                                      accounting for 30% of Auckland’s per capita consumption emissions according to C40 Cities
                                                                      consumption emissions data report 2018.
                                                                      Careful assessment of land allocation for housing development is urgently required to ensure

                                                                      that prime growing land is protected from housing development; that domestic supply of
                                                                      vegetables can meet demand; and that climate change and carbon reduction is embedded in
                                                                      land-use and planning policy.
                                                                      4. Public transport infrastructure: Transport accounts for the second-largest share of emissions
                                                                      from households (27% - Motu Economic and Public Policy Research) and individuals (23% - C40

                                                                      Cities Consumption emissions calculation).
                                                                      Ensuring that adequate investment is allocated to public transport infrastructure, particularly in
                                                                      new, high growth areas such as South and North Auckland, is key to reducing per capita carbon
                                                                      emissions. Plans tabled by Greater Auckland (congestion free network and Regional Rapid Rail)
                                                                      merit consideration.

                                                                      High deprivation urban areas should also be prioritised and supported with affordable lower
                                                                      carbon transport options, to ensure that equity issues arising from fuel taxes, for example, are
                                                                      addressed.


                                                                      In terms of key stakeholders that the government should be working with: If New Zealand does
                                                                      follow the UK Climate Change Act model, it follows that the NZ Zero Carban Act would result in a
                                                                      legal requirement for ALL government departments to be responsible for reducing and reporting
                                                                      emissions from their own buildings and estate, AND for assessing the carbon impact of new
                                                                      policies.


                                                                      Strategic partners would include:
                                                                      • The government departments most likely to lead on emissions reductions (transport, energy,
                                                                      agriculture/primary industries, built environment).
                                                                      • All Public Service Departments, Non-Public Service Departments, Crown Entities (Crown Agents,

                                                                      Autonomous Crown Entities, Independent Crown Entities) and Crown Entity Companies (Crown
                                                                      Research Institutes and Other Companies).
                                                                      • School Boards of Trustees and Tertiary Education Institutes, Public Finance Act Schedule 4
                                                                      Organisations, Reserve Bank of New Zealand, State-Owned Enterprises and Mixed Ownership
                                                                      Model companies.


                                                                      These organisations directly and indirectly represent the interests of communities, business, NFP
                                                                      and NGOs across New Zealand, all of whom will play a vital role in leading the cultural change
                                                                      and behaviour change required to move New Zealand to zero emissions future.
Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate
                                                                 Yes - the Commission should not be a decision-making body. However, the Government should
Change Commission advises on and monitors New                    be legally required to consider and formally respond to the Commission’s advice, and to provide
Zealand's progress towards its goals. Do you agree with          an explanation if they do not act on it.
these functions?

Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change                   The Commission should advise the Government on policy settings in the NZ ETS. It should not
Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand            make decisions itself with respect to the number of units available in the NZ ETS, or its
Emissions Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)?                               implementation.

Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change             I agree with the following collective expertise:

Commissioners need to have a range of essential and              • climate change policy (including emissions trading)
desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed              • resource economics and impacts (including social impacts, labour markets and distribution)
expertise?                                                       • te Tiriti o Waitangi, te reo me ona tikanga Māori and Māori interests
                                                                 • climate and environmental science including mātauranga Māori
                                                                 • experience with addressing adaptation challenges like planning, insurance and local

                                                                 government
                                                                 • risk management
                                                                 • engineering and/or infrastructure
                                                                 • community engagement and communications.
                                                                 • business competitiveness

                                                                 • knowledge of the public and private innovation and technology development system.

                                                                 I think expertise in public health is also important.

Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover
adapting to climate change?                                      Yes. This may require a separate adaptation sub-committee within the Climate Commission.

Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new                 I agree with the proposed functions below, but recognise that nuance is required in terms of how
functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree       local councils are involved:

with the proposed functions?                                     • a national climate change risk assessment
                                                                 • a national adaptation plan
                                                                 • regular review of progress towards implementing the national adaptation plan
                                                                 • an adaptation reporting power

Q16. Should the Government explore setting up a targeted
adaptation reporting power that could see some
                                                                 Yes
organisations share information on their exposure to
climate change risks?

Further comments
