Your submission to Zero Carbon Bill

David James Riddell





Reference no: 977

Submitter Type:     Individual

 Clause

 1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation?
 Position
 The Government sets a goal to reach net zero emissions by the second half of the century and the Climate Change Commission

 advises on the specific target for the Government to set later
 Notes

 Of the two options above, the second is slightly preferable as it allows somewhat more flexibility. A third option, in which the
 Government does not set an emissions reduction target at all, would be better still.



 Clause
 2. If the Government sets a 2050 target now, which is the best target for New Zealand?

 Position
 Net Zero Carbon Dioxide - Reducing net carbon dioxide emissions to zero by 2050

 Notes
 If a target is indeed to be set, then the first option, being the least onerous, is the one that should be adopted. Not setting a target at
 all would be preferable.




 Clause
 3. How should New Zealand meet its targets?
 Position

 Domestic emissions reductions (including from new forest planting) and using some emissions reductions from overseas
 (international carbon units) that have strong environmental safeguards
 Notes

 The second option is still a bad option but is preferable because it allows slightly more flexibility. But neither option really answers the
 question: how exactly is New Zealand going to meet its targets? The Discussion Document speaks of innovation and land use

 changes, but there are few details about what these may entail. There will no doubt be a move to greater levels of renewable
 electricity generation, but will this, for example, require damming more of our few remaining wild rivers? Will we still require substantial
 reserves of base load electricity generation capacity for those times when the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, and what

 forms will they take? How do we power the expanding fleet of electric vehicles? If we have to reduce our livestock farming industries
 to meet targets for methane and nitrous oxide (assuming these are set), how do we fill the hole this will leave in our national
 economy?




 Clause
 4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?
 Position

 Yes
 Notes

 2050 is 32 years away. Thirty-two years ago, in 1986, there was no internet, hardly any mobile phones, the USSR was still intact and
 the Berlin Wall still up, there was a stock market boom that was about to end in spectacular fashion, and New Zealand had double-
 digit inflation. We have no idea what the future holds, and need to retain as much flexibility as we can to face whatever it may throw at

 us. Furthermore, there is a significant minority of climate scientists who consider that the current level of concern about climate
 change is considerably overstated; it may yet turn out that they're right. For a paper on how the current scientific “consensus” has
 been engineered and dissenting voices suppressed for political ends, see Curry, JA and PJ Webster, 2013: Climate change: no

 consensus on consensus. CAB Reviews 8(1): 1-9. I have attached a copy of this (consensus-paper-revised-final.pdf, sourced from
 curryja.files.wordpress.com/2012/10/consensus-paper-revised-final.doc). A plain language version is also available at

 judithcurry.com/2012/10/28/climate-change-no-consensus-on-consensus In the event that the current alarm over climate change
 comes to be seen as misplaced, future generations should have the option of modifying or abandoning the course which many in
 this generation wish to set for them.




 Clause
 5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be in place at any
 given time. Do you agree with this proposal?

 Position
 No
 Notes

 The Discussion Document notes: “Setting targets is not new. New Zealand has already made commitments to reduce emissions to
... 5 per cent below 1990 levels by 2020.” What it doesn't say is that the best we have been able to do so far, with only two years to

go until the target date, is to stabilise emissions at 19.6% above 1990 levels. Meeting these targets is likely to be very challenging
indeed. The Document has no details on how these targets are to be enforced, and the consequences of failing to meet them are

not clear. I note Germany has just announced that it is likely to miss its goal of cutting emissions by 40 percent by 2020.
www.newsroom.co.nz/2018/06/19/126651/germany-will-fail-2020-climate-goals



Clause

6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?
Position

Yes - each incoming Government should have the option to review the third budget in the sequence
Notes

See above.



Clause
7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific range under

exceptional circumstances? See p36 Our Climate Your Say
Position

Yes
Notes



Clause

8. Do you agree with the considerations we propose that the Government and the Climate Change Commission take into account
when advising on and setting budgets? See p44 Our Climate Your Say

Position
Yes

Notes
If the Government is to set budgets, and if there is to be a Climate Change Commission, then these considerations are reasonable.



Clause

9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the emissions budgets?
Position

No
Notes



Clause

10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For example, who do we
need to work with, what else needs to be considered?

Notes
The Government's primary concern should be for the economic, social and environmental damage that actions to meet these targets

may precipitate. What would be the effect on tax revenue of restricting livestock numbers to control methane and nitrous oxide
levels? How would this impact the ability of the Government to support the socially disadvantaged who may, for example, require
assistance with home heating costs in the face of higher electricity bills? What are the environmental consequences of planting fast-

growing exotic plantation forests solely for carbon capture? The recent floods in Tolaga Bay showed the serious downstream effects
that can occur when forests are not properly managed; a lack of management is likely if planted trees have no clear function other

than soaking up carbon.



Clause

11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's progress towards
its goals. Do you agree with these functions? See p42 Our Climate Your Say
Position

No
Notes

A Climate Change Commission is unnecessary and diverts Government attention away from more serious matters. Some of the
actions proposed to fight climate change (such as increasing energy efficiency, improving home insulation, better public transport

and affordable housing) make sense on their own merits and should be pursued, but putting all the focus on emissions is likely to
distort economic signals and produce undesirable outcomes such as suppressed economic activity and more expensive energy, to
no good purpose. The destruction of American forests to produce “biofuels” for export to Europe is an illustration of the effects this

narrow focus on “carbon neutrality” can have; we do not want to see these follies repeated in New Zealand.
www.businessinsider.com/europe-imports-wood-biomass-from-us-for-power-2015-12/?r=AU&IR=T




Clause
12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme

(NZ ETS)?
Position
Advising the Government on policy settings in the NZ ETS

Notes
Both are poor options: better to have no Climate Change Commission at all. But if one must be established, then it is preferable it

have an advisory capacity only.



Clause
13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and desirable expertise.

Do you agree with the proposed expertise? See p45 Our Climate Your Say
Position
Yes

Notes
Better to have no Climate Change Commission, but if one must be established this range of expertise looks appropriate.



Clause

14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?
Position

No
Notes
If there has to be a Zero Carbon Bill, it should be as small and unobtrusive as possible. Climate change will continue to occur

regardless of what human greenhouse gas emissions may be, but its direction and extent will be impossible to predict. New Zealand
requires as much economic resilience as possible to deal with any future adverse events, and setting rules now will not help future

generations to cope with situations which they will be able to perceive far more clearly than we can. Restricting economic activity and
hence national financial resources through efforts to fight climate change will also limit the options of future generations.



Clause

15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree with the proposed
functions? See p47 Our Climate Your Say

Position
No
Notes

The proposals would only serve to create more bureaucracy and lead to more, not less, inefficiency in the way national and local
governments conduct their operations.



Clause

16. Should we explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some organisations share information on their
exposure to climate change risks?

Position
No
Notes

See above.



Clause

Do you have any other comments you'd like to make?
Notes
Please see attached document (Zero Carbon Bill Submission Supplementary Comments.pdf)




 Supporting documents from your Submission



  consensus-paper-revised-final.pdf                                       Uploaded on 06/25/2018 at 11:53AM


  Zero_Carbon_Bill_Submission_Supplementary_Commen..                      Uploaded on 06/25/2018 at 11:53AM
Curry, JAand PJ Webster, 2012: Climate change: no consensus on consensus. CAB Reviews, in
press




                          Climate change: no consensus on consensus

                                   J. A. Curry and P.J. Webster

                            School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences

                                 Georgia Institute of Technology
                                     Atlanta, GA30332-0340

                            Correspondence: curryja@eas.gatech.edu




Abstract. This essay explores the history and consequences of the scientific consensus building
activities by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on the topic of dangerous
anthropogenic climate change. Abroad view of consensus is provided in the context of the
philosophy of science and the social and psychological issues that contribute to bias. The role of
scientific consensus in policy making is discussed. An overview is provided of critiques of the
IPCC consensus process. Asummary of recommendations is provided aimed at improving the
interface between climate science and policy in ways that can support decision making associated

with the growing implications of the “messy wickedness” of the climate change problem.

Key words: climate change, consensus, consensus, decision making under uncertainty

Review methodology: Acomprehensive evaluation was conducted of relevant literature from
climate science, science and technology studies, philosophy of science, psychology and public

policy.
Introduction

“My job will not be easy but I am convinced the problems will be solved in a quicker and more
efficient way if there is unity and consensus.” – Lucas Papademos  1



The United Nations initiated a scientific consensus building process with the objective of
providing a robust scientific basis for climate policy, under the auspices of the Intergovernmental
Panel for Climate Change (IPCC). Sir John Houghton introduced the concept of consensus in the
context of the IPCC in a statement in the Foreword to the IPCC First Assessment Report (FAR):
[1]


“Although, as in any developing scientific topic, there is a minority of opinions which we have
not been able to accommodate, the peer review has helped to ensure a high degree of consensus
among authors and reviewers regarding the results presented. Thus the Assessment is an
authoritative statement of the views of the international scientific community at this time….”

Subsequent to the FAR, consensus became codified in the IPCC’s procedures: "in taking

decisions, drawing conclusions, and adopting reports, the IPCC Plenary and Working Groups
shall use all best endeavours to reach consensus" [2]. The IPCC’s consensus approach has been
driven largely by the desire to communicate climate science coherently and simply to a wide
spectrum of policy users [3]. In this context, it has been argued that the IPCC consensus is used
as an appeal to authority in the representation of scientific results as the basis for urgent policy
making [4].


The main IPCC consensus findings and their evolution through the course of four IPCC
assessment reports are summarized as:

       FAR (1990): “The size of this [global] warming is broadly consistent with predictions of

        climate models, but it is also of the same magnitude as natural climate variability.” [1]
       SAR (1995): "The balance of evidence suggests a discernible human influence on global
        climate.” [5]
       TAR (2001): “There is new and stronger evidence that most of the warming observed

        over the last 50 years is attributable to human activities." [6]
       AR4 (2007): “Most of the observed increase in global average temperatures since the
        mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse
        gas concentrations.” [7]

                                                                               th
The IPCC findings on attribution of climate change in the latter half of the 20 century are the
most important statements made by the IPCC, in context of policy making under the
precautionary principle. The IPCC consensus findings on attribution have been echoed in
position statements made by many scientific organizations, including the following that explicitly
use the word ‘consensus’:
       American Association for the Advancement of Science (2006) [8]

       U.S. National Academies of Sciences (2008) [9]
       Joint Science Academies statement (2005) [10]
       American Meteorological Society (2007) [11]



1http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-15687600


                                                                                                  2
Consensus has both cognitive (evidenced based) and social (peer acceptance) dimensions,

including shared beliefs and uniform interpretations. Funtowicz and Ravetz [12] propose a
coding system for levels of consensus as it relates to peer acceptance (Table 1). The consensus
among climate scientists around the IPCC attribution statement has been portrayed by Oreskes as
“nearly total” [13]. Oreskes acknowledges that while there is some disagreement, the agreement
is nearly total in terms of the IPCC portraying the best available explanation. It is argued further
that a small number of scientists who do disagree have lower levels of expertise and prominence
than the scientists supporting the consensus [14] or are politically motivated ‘merchants of doubt’
[15].


The IPCC itself expends considerable effort in assessing uncertainty and levels of confidence in
the scientific findings as described in the recent special issue in Climatic Change on Guidance for
Characterizing and Communicating Uncertainty and Confidence in the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climatic Change [16]. Yohe and Oppenheimer describe the pervasiveness of uncertainty in the
introductory essay to this special issue [16]:


“Since its inception in 1988, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has 
worked with the growing recognition that uncertainty is pervasive in our understanding of the 
climate system: what drives climate change, what will determine its future course, and what 
influence it will have on important social and ecological aspects of our world. It is not news that 
the IPCC has struggled, with varying degrees of success, in its efforts to describe these 
uncertainties and to judge the confidence with which it can offer its major conclusions.”


In a series of three papers [17] [18] [19], the authors (Curry and Webster) have argued that the
characterization of uncertainty by the IPCC is inadequate and leads to overconfidence in the
conclusions, particularly with regards to the IPCC AR4 statement on attribution. With these levels
of uncertainties, it would seem that there is plenty of scope for disagreement among scientists.
Nevertheless, the IPCC consensus is portrayed as nearly total among scientists with expertise and
prominence in the field of climate science. The idea of a scientific consensus surrounding climate

change attribution has been questioned by a number of people, including scientists and
politicians. Notably, the Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change (NIPCC) has
written a report entitled Nature, Not Human Activity, Rules the Climate [20] that contradicts the
main conclusions of the IPCC. Much effort has been undertaken by those that support the IPCC
consensus to discredit skeptical voices including the NIPCC, essentially dismissing them as
cranks or at best rebels, or even politically motivated ‘deniers’ [21]. Amidst the increasingly
intense public debate on the issue of climate change and the recent challenges to the credibility of

the IPCC [22] [23], the issue of consensus itself has become a topic of debate, in context of the
science as well as its role in policy making.

Students of science are taught to reject ad populam or ‘bandwagon’appeals, a sentiment is
articulated by the motto of the UK Royal Society: ‘nullius in verba’, which is roughly translated
as ‘take nobody’s word for it’. How then, and why, have climate scientists come to a scientific
consensus about a very complex scientific problem that the scientists themselves acknowledge
has substantial and fundamental uncertainties? This paper seeks to provide some insight into this

issue.

Consensus and the philosophy of science

“In questions of science, the authority of a thousand is not worth the humble reasoning of a





                                                                                                    3
                                     2
single individual.” Galileo Galilei

The debate surrounding the consensus on climate change is complicated by the complexity of
both the scientific and the associated sociopolitical issues. Underlying this debate is a
fundamental tension between two competing conceptions of scientific inquiry: the consensual
view of science versus the dissension view [24]. Under the consensual approach, the goal of

science is a consensus of rational opinion over the widest possible field [25]. The opposing view
of science is that of dissension, whereby scientific progress occurs via subversion of consensus in
favor of new experiments, ideas and theories. There are four arguments that undermine the
consensus perspective [24]: scientific research is controversy-laden; incommensurability of
theories; underdetermination of theories and successful counternormal behavior. The importance
of controversy is evident in Kuhn’s arguments [26], whereby the emergence of new scientific

ideas requires a process that permits rational men to disagree, with advocates of different
paradigms often subscribing to different methodological standards and cognitive values.
Underdetermination implies that inadequate data and understanding does not allow one theory to
be selected unambiguously to the exclusion of all its competitors. Feyerabend argues that there
are many noteworthy instances of scientific progress whereby scientists have apparently violated
the norms or canons usually called scientific [27].


Lehrer raises the following question [28]: When is it reasonable for a person to conform to a
consensus and when is it reasonable to dissent? His response:

We shall answer the question in terms of an intellectual concern of science and rational inquiry.
Succinctly stated, the concern is to obtain truth and avoid error. We shall argue that consensus

among a reference group of experts thus concerned is relevant only if agreement is not sought. If
a consensus arises unsought in the search for truth and the avoidance of error,such consensus
provides grounds which, though they may be overridden, suffice for concluding that conformity is
reasonable and dissent is not. If, however,consensus is aimed at by the members of the reference
group and arrived at by intent, it becomes conspiratorial and irrelevant to our intellectual
concern.


With genuinely well-established scientific theories, ‘consensus’is not discussed and the concept
of consensus is arguably irrelevant. For example, there is no point to discussing a consensus that
the Earth orbits the sun, or that the hydrogen molecule has less mass than the nitrogen molecule.
While a consensus may arise surrounding a specific scientific hypothesis or theory, the existence
of a consensus is not itself the evidence.


The issue of challenges to the IPCC consensus statement on attribution is not analogous to
Galileo-like revolutionaries. Rather these challenges are associated with a concern about the
oversimplification by the IPCC of a complex issue in the interests of policy making [17]. How to
reason about uncertainties in the complex climate system and its computer simulations is neither
simple nor obvious [18]. Scientific debates involve controversies over the value and importance

of particular classes of evidence as well as disagreement about the appropriate logical framework
for linking and assessing the evidence. The IPCC faces a daunting challenge with regards to
characterizing and reasoning about uncertainty, assessing the quality of evidence, linking the
evidence into arguments, identifying areas of ignorance and assessing confidence levels. An
overarching concern is how the issue of climate change is framed scientifically and how
judgments about confidence in complex scientific arguments are made in view of the cascade of

uncertainties [18].

2http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Galileo_Galilei


                                                                                                      4
Given the complexity of the climate problem, ‘expert judgments’about uncertainty and
confidence levels are made by the IPCC on issues that are dominated by unquantifiable
uncertainties. The IPCC consensus building process has been characterized as an exercise in
collective judgment about subjective Bayesian likelihoods in areas of uncertain knowledge [29].
Goodwin argues that the IPCC consensus is a manufactured consensus, arising from an

intentional consensus building process [4]. Judging the manufactured consensus of the IPCC by
Lehrer’s standard implies that the IPCC consensus is not intellectually meaningful. This argument
does not imply that the IPCC’s conclusions are necessarily incorrect or that the consensus is not
useful for policy makers; however, this argument leads to the conclusion that the consensus
building process employed by the IPCC does not lend intellectual substance to their conclusions.


Consensus and bias

“A long time ago a bunch of people reached a general consensus as to what's real and what's not
and most of us have been going along with it ever since.” – Charles de Lint   3

If the objective of scientific research is to obtain truth and avoid error, how might a consensus

seeking process introduce bias into the science and increase the chances for error? ‘Confirmation
bias’is a well-known psychological principle that connotes the seeking or interpreting of
evidence in ways that are partial to existing beliefs, expectations, or an existing hypothesis [30].
Confirmation bias usually refers to unwitting selectivity in the acquisition and interpretation of
evidence.


Kelly provides some insight into confirmation bias [31], arguing that a prior belief can skew the
total evidence that is available subsequently in a direction that is favorable to itself. Kelly also
finds that individuals tend to be significantly better at detecting fallacies when the fallacy occurs
in an argument for a conclusion which they disbelieve, rather than for a conclusion in which they
believe [32].


An individual’s assessment of a scientific issue and the associated levels of uncertainty can be
influenced by the group dynamic in a consensus building process. In its recent review of the
IPCC, the InterAcademy Committee [33] states that “Studies suggest that informal elicitation
measures, especially those designed to reach consensus, lead to different assessments of
probabilities than formal measures. Informal procedures often result in probability distributions
that place less weight in the tails of the distribution than formal elicitation methods, possibly

understating the uncertainty associated with a given outcome.” An example is provided by
Morgan et al., who elicited subjective probability distributions from twenty-four leading
atmospheric scientists that reflect their individual judgments about radiative forcing from
anthropogenic aerosols [34]. Agreement was strongest in their assessments of the direct aerosol
effect. However, the range of uncertainty that a number of experts associated with their estimates
for indirect aerosol forcing was substantially larger than that suggested by either the IPCC 3rd or

4th Assessment Reports.

Recent research provides insight into the group dynamics of consensual judgments by examining
how well a confidence-based strategy works in groups [35]. When most people did not know the
correct answers, confidence-based group decisions were worse than those of even the worst-
performing individual, because group decisions are dominated by the more confident member.



3 Charles De Lint, "Where Desert Spirits Crowd the Night", 1995, p. 254


                                                                                                     5
An implication of this research is that in uncertain environments, groups might make better
decisions by relying on the guidance of those who express the most doubt.

Kelly describes an additional source of confirmation bias in the consensus building process [32]:
“As more and more peers weigh in on a given issue, the proportion of the total evidence which
consists of higher order psychological evidence [of what other people believe] increases, and the

proportion of the total evidence which consists of first order evidence decreases . . . At some
point, when the number of peers grows large enough, the higher order psychological evidence
will swamp the first order evidence into virtual insignificance.” Kelly concludes [32]: “Over time,
this invisible hand process tends to bestow a certain competitive advantage to our prior beliefs
with respect to confirmation and disconfirmation.”


With regards to the IPCC, cognitive biases in the context of an institutionalized consensus
building process have arguably resulted in the consensus becoming increasingly confirmed in a
self-reinforcing way, to the detriment of the scientific process.


Role of scientific consensus in decision making


“Consensus means that everyone agrees to say collectively what no one believes individually” –
Abba Eban   4

The mandate of the IPCC is to provide policy‐relevant information to policy makers involved in
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Based upon the precautionary

principle, the UNFCCC established a qualitative climate goal for the long term: avoiding
dangerous climate change by stabilization of the concentrations of atmospheric greenhouse gases.
The IPCC scientific assessments play a primary role in legitimizing national and international
policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The main practical objective of the
IPCC has been to assess whether there is sufficient certainty in the science so as to trigger
political action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This objective has led to the IPCC

assessments being framed around identifying anthropogenic influences on climate, environmental
and socio-economic impacts of climate change, and stabilization of CO conc2ntrations in the
atmosphere.

The role of consensus in this decision making is described by Oreskes [36]: “If we feel that a
policy question deserves to be informed by scientific knowledge, then we have no choice but to

ask, what is the consensus of experts on this matter? If there is no consensus of experts—as was
the case among earth scientists about moving continents before the late 1960s—then we have a
case for more research. If there is a consensus of experts—as there is today over the reality of
anthropogenic climate change —then we have a case for moving forward with relevant action.”

Oreskes’statement is based on the linear model of expertise [37], or ‘speaking truth to power’

[38], whereby first science has to ‘get it right’and then policy comes into play. The influence of
science on policy is assumed to be deterministic: if the scientific facts are ‘sound,’then they have
a direct impact on policy. In the linear model, the key question is whether existing scientific
knowledge is certain enough to compel action; Oreskes [36] argues that we should not expect
logically indisputable proof, but rather a robust consensus of experts. The linear model of
expertise continues to dominate perceptions among climate scientists and policy makers [37]

[39].

4 http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Talk:Abba_Eban


                                                                                                     6
Van der Sluijs argues that the IPCC has adopted a ‘speaking consensus to power’approach that
sees uncertainty and dissent as problematic, and attempts to mediate these into a consensus [40].
The ‘speaking consensus to power’ strategy acknowledges that available knowledge is
inconclusive, and uses consensus as a proxy for truth through a negotiated interpretation of the
inconclusive body of scientific evidence. The ‘consensus to power’strategy reflects a specific
vision of how politics deals with scientific uncertainties [40] and endeavors to create a

knowledge base for decision making following the linear model of expertise.

Adistinction needs to be made between scientific consensus and consensus-oriented decision
making. In the ‘speaking consensus to power’ approach, there is the inference that a scientific
consensus should translate to a consensus decision. Consensus-oriented decision making is a
group decision making process that seeks the consent of the participants and to improve solidarity
and does not necessarily imply agreement or any kind of unanimity [41]; the existence of a

relevant scientific consensus may or may not be important in the deliberations. Consensus-
oriented decision making is about finding common ground among parties with diverse interests
and values.

Classical decision making under the linear model involves reducing the uncertainties before
acting. In the face of irreducible uncertainties and substantial ignorance, reducing the uncertainty
is not viable, but not acting could be associated with catastrophic impacts. Under conditions of

deep uncertainty or ignorance, optimal decisions based upon a scientific consensus can carry a
considerable risk. Weitzmann characterizes the decision making environment surrounding
climate change in the follow way [42]: “Much more unsettling for an application of expected
utility analysis is deep structural uncertainty in the science of global warming coupled with an
economic inability to place a meaningful upper bound on catastrophic losses from disastrous
temperature changes. The climate science seems to be saying that the probability of a system-

wide disastrous collapse is non-negligible even while this tiny probability is not known precisely
and necessarily involves subjective judgments.”

Obersteiner et al. describe the uncertainty surrounding the climate change science as a two-edged
sword that cuts both ways [43]: what is considered to be a serious problem could turn out to be
less of a threat, whereas unanticipated and unforeseen surprises could be catastrophic. Obersteiner
et al. argue that the strategy of assuming that climate models can predict the future of climate

change accurately enough to choose a clear strategic direction might be at best marginally helpful
and at worst downright dangerous. Underestimating uncertainty can lead to strategies that do not
defend the world against unexpected and sometimes even catastrophic threats. Obersteiner et al.
note that another danger lies on the other side of the sword if uncertainties are too large and
analytic planning processes are abandoned. While a higher level of confidence and a consensus
can make decision makers more willing to act, overestimating the confidence can result in
discounting the value of information in the decision making process if the confidence later proves

to be unwarranted.

The linear model of expertise works well for ‘tame’problems [44], where everyone essentially
agrees on both the problem and the solution. Successes in managing tame problems are evident
in the domains of engineering and regulatory science. Beck [45] argues that climate change has
been framed as a relatively ‘tame’problem that requires a straightforward solution, namely the

top-down creation of a global carbon market. However, climate change is arguably characterized
better as ‘wicked problem’or a ‘mess’[46] [47]. ‘Messes’and ‘wicked problems’are
characterized by multiple problem definitions, the methods are open to contention and the
solutions are variable and disputed, and 'unknown unknowns' suggest chronic conditions of


                                                                                                    7
ignorance and lack of capacity to imagine future eventualities of both the problem and the
proposed solutions [44].

In summary, the problems with the ‘speaking consensus to power’ approach are [40]: it
underexposes scientific uncertainties and dissent, making the chosen policy vulnerable to

scientific errors; and it limits the political playing field in which players can present different
policy perspectives.


Unintended consequences of the IPCC consensus


“Historically, the claim of consensus has been the first refuge of scoundrels5 it is a way to avoid
debate by claiming that the matter is already settled.” – Michael Crichton

The consensus approach used by the IPCC has received a number of criticisms. Oppenheimer et
al. [48] warn of the need to guard against overconfidence and argue that the IPCC consensus
emphasizes expected outcomes, whereas it is equally important that policy makers understand the

more extreme possibilities that consensus may exclude or downplay. Gruebler and Nakicenovic
[49] opine that “there is a danger that the IPCC consensus position might lead to a dismissal of
uncertainty in favor of spuriously constructed expert opinion.” Curry [18] finds that the
consensus approach being used by the IPCC has failed to produce a thorough portrayal of the
complexities of the problem and the associated uncertainties in our understanding.


Goodwin argues the consensus claim created opportunities to claim that the IPCC's emphasis on
consensus is distorting the science itself [4]: “Once the consensus claim was made, scientists
involved in the ongoing IPCC process had reasons not just to consider the scientific evidence, but
to consider the possible effect of their statements on their ability to defend the consensus claim.”

While the IPCC’s consensus approach acknowledges uncertainties, defenders of the IPCC

consensus have expended considerable efforts in the ‘boundary work’of distinguishing those
qualified to contribute to the climate change consensus from those who are not [4]. These efforts
have characterized skeptics as small in number [13], extreme [50], and scientifically suspect [14].
These efforts create temptations to make illegitimate attacks on scientists whose views do not
align with the consensus, and to dismiss any disagreement as politically motivated ‘denialism’
[51]. The use of ‘denier’to label anyone who disagrees with the IPCC consensus on attribution

leads to concerns being raised about the IPCC being enforced as dogma, which is tied to how
dissent is dealt with.

The linear model of expertise places science at the center of political debate. Scientific
controversies surrounding evidence of climate change have thus become a proxy for political
battles over whether and how to react to climate change [37]. Therefore, winning a scientific

debate means attaining a privileged position in political battle, hence providing motivation for
defending the consensus. As a result, it has become difficult to disentangle political arguments
about climate policies from scientific arguments about the evidence for human-induced climate
change. The quality of both political debate and scientific practice can suffer as a consequence.

The linear model of expertise ‘speaking consensus to power’tends to stifle discussion of

alternative policy approaches. The IPCC has framed its assessment around the UNFCCC policy

5 Crichton, Michael, Aliens cause Global Warming, 17 January 2003 speech at the California
Institute of Technology (http://s8int.com/crichton.html)


                                                                                                     8
of stabilizing greenhouse emissions, focusing its scientific assessment on the attribution of
climate change and the sensitivity of climate change to greenhouse gases. The narrow focus on
issues of attribution masks major political implications, marginalizes issues around adaptation
and development, and fails to engage with alternative approaches and to generate ideas to inform
its ‘solutions’[52]. Pielke argues that this narrow focus and ignoring our ignorance diverts
attention away from options that do not depend on scientific certainties about climate change,

such as accelerating decarbonization through expanding energy access, improving security, and
improving resilience to extreme weather events [53].

While the public may not understand the complexity of the science or be predisposed culturally to
accept the consensus, they can certainly understand the vociferous debates over the science
portrayed by the media. Further, they can judge the social facts surrounding the consensus

building process, including those revealed by the so-called “Climategate” episode [22] [45], and
decide whether to trust the experts whose opinion comprises the consensus. Beck argues that [45]
“in a public debate, the social practices of knowledge-making matter as much as the substance of
the knowledge itself.”

In summary, the manufactured consensus of the IPCC has arguably had the unintended

consequences of distorting the science, elevating the voices of scientists that dispute the
consensus, and motivating actions by the consensus scientists and their supporters that have
diminished the public’s trust in the IPCC.


Ways forward

                                                                    6
“Science is belief in the ignorance of experts” – Richard Feynman

The linear model of climate science expertise conceals uncertainties, ambiguities, dissent and
ignorance behind a scientific consensus. The authors have argued previously [17] [18] that the
single most important actions that is needed with regards to climate science – particularly in

context of the IPCC assessment reports – are explicit reflection on uncertainties, ambiguities and
areas of ignorance (both known and unknown unknowns) and more openness for dissent in the
IPCC processes. Greater openness about scientific uncertainties and ignorance, and more
transparency about dissent and disagreement, would provide policymakers with a more complete
picture of climate science and its limitations.


Along these lines, some specific recommendations for the IPCC have been made. Oppenheimer et
al. state [48]: “Increased transparency, including a thorough narrative report on the range of
views expressed by panel members, emphasizing areas of disagreement that arose during the
assessment, would provide a more robust evaluation of risk.” Van der Sluijs [40] suggests
including a dissent chapter in the synthesis report of the IPCC, which contains a sketch of
minority scientific views and points of ongoing scientific dispute. Socolow [55] recommends

that the IPCC provide a perspective of earth systems science as an evolving human enterprise,
explaining how recent research has altered perspectives. In the context of iterative risk
management, policy makers need insight into the rate of learning, as well as what is known and
unknown.

Moving forward requires a reassessment of the ‘consensus to power’ approach for the science-


6 "What is Science?", presented at the fifteenth annual meeting of the National Science Teachers
Association, in New York City (1966) published in The Physics Teacher Vol. 7, issue 6 (1969)


                                                                                                    9
policy interface that has evolved in the context of the IPCC and UNFCCC. Given the discomfort

associated with scientific uncertainty and ignorance in the linear model of expertise, Socolow
[55] makes the point that “It will take courage to disclose lack of consensus.” He further states
that coexistence of contending views (‘low agreement’) is normal in science and not a cause for
embarrassment, and that users of the IPCC reports need this information. Pielke [53] cites an
example of decision making described by Gross [56]: “The limited knowledge and predictive
capacities of science were not seen to be signs of poor science. Instead, the actors agreed on

what was not known and took it into account for future planning.” Pielke argues that awareness of
ignorance actually opens up possibilities for political compromise and policies that proceed
incrementally based on the feedback of practical experience: agreement on facts as a prerequisite
to action is not necessary, so long there is an agreement to learn based on experience.

The challenge is to open up the decision making processes in a way that renders their primary
nature more honestly political and economic, while giving proper weight to scientific reason and

evidence [53]. Holt [44] argues that messes and wicked problems require organizations to
abandon the desire to design a solitary strategy determined from within a specific ‘culture’. Holt
views risk management for messes and wicked problems as the resolution between alternative
solutions and the dissolution of confusions, more so than the pursuit of optimal solutions.

There are frameworks for decision making under deep uncertainty and ignorance that accept
uncertainty and dissent as key elements of the decision making process [57] [58] [40]. Rather

than choosing an optimal policy based on a scientific consensus, decision makers can design
robust and flexible policy strategies that account for uncertainty, ignorance and dissent. Robust
strategies formally consider uncertainty, whereby decision makers seek to reduce the range of
possible scenarios over which the strategy performs poorly. Flexible strategies are adaptive, and
can be quickly adjusted to advancing scientific insights.


The perspective of Funtowicz and Ravetz on post normal science [59] – characterized by
conflicting values and deep uncertainties – is useful in moving forward on messes and wicked
problems. When the stakes are high and uncertainties are large, Funtowicz and Ravetz point out
that there is demand by the public to participate and assess quality, which they refer to as the
extended peer community. The extended peer community consists not only of those with
traditional institutional accreditation that are creating the technical work, but also those with
much broader expertise that are capable of doing quality assessment and control on that work.

New information technologies and the open knowledge movement are facilitating the rapid
diffusion of information and sharing of expertise, giving hitherto unrealized power to the peer
communities, although this requires increased public availability of data, documentation of
methods, and journal articles. Arguing from consensus to enforce conclusions does not work with
the extended peer community. What is needed are serious attempts to engage the extended peer
community with the modes of expert reasoning used to reach those conclusions [45].



Conclusions

The climate community has worked for more than 20 years to establish a scientific consensus on
anthropogenic climate change. The IPCC consensus building process arguably played a useful
role in the early synthesis of the scientific knowledge and in building political will to act. We

have presented perspectives from multiple disciplines that support the inference that the scientific
consensus seeking process used by the IPCC has had the unintended consequence of introducing
biases into the both the science and related decision making processes. The IPCC scientific
consensus has become convoluted with consensus decision making through a ‘speaking


                                                                                                  10
consensus to power’approach. The growing implications of the messy wickedness of the climate

change problem are becoming increasingly apparent, highlighting the inadequacies of the
‘consensus to power’ approach for decision making on the complex issues associated with climate
change. Further, research from the field of science and technology studies are finding that
manufacturing a consensus in the context of the IPCC has acted to hyper-politicize the scientific
and policy debates, to the detriment of both. Arguments are increasingly being made to abandon
the scientific consensus seeking approach in favor of open debate of the arguments themselves
and discussion of a broad range of policy options that stimulat local and regional solutions to the
multifaceted and interrelated issues of climate change, land use, resource management, cost

effective clean energy solutions, and developing technologies to expand energy access efficiently.

References

[1] Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Climate Change: Scientific Assessment.
Contribution of Working Group I to the First Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press; 1990


[2] Skodvin, Tora. Structure and Agent in the Scientific Diplomacy of Climate Change.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2000, p 115. As Cited by Goodwin, J. The Authority of
the IPCC First Assessment Report and the Manufacture of Consensus. Paper presented at the
National Communication Association conference, Chicago, November, 2009.
https://dl.dropbox.com/u/1809847/goodwin/Goodwin2009-3.pdf

[3] Weingart, P. Scientific expertise and political accountability. Paradoxes of science in politics.

Science & Public Policy 1999: 26; 151-161

[4] Goodwin, J. The Authority of the IPCC First Assessment Report and the Manufacture of
Consensus. Paper presented at the National Communication Association conference, Chicago,
November, 2009. https://dl.dropbox.com/u/1809847/goodwin/Goodwin2009-3.pdf

[5] Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Climate Change 1995: The Science of

Climate Change. Contribution of Working Group I to the Second Assessment Report of the
IntergovernmentalPanel on Climate Change. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. 1996

[6] Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Climate Change 2001: The Scientific
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Third Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. 2001

[7] Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Climate Change 2007: The Physical

Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. 2007

 [8] American Association for the Advancement of Science. 2006
http://www.aaas.org/news/press_room/climate_change/mtg_200702/aaas_climate_statement.pdf

[9] U.S. National Academies of Sciences. 2008 http://dels-

old.nas.edu/climatechange/understanding-climate-change.shtml

[10] Joint Science Academies statement. 2005 http://nationalacademies.org/onpi/06072005.pdf

[11] American Meteorological Society. 2007



                                                                                               11
http://www.ametsoc.org/policy/2007climatechange.html


[12] Funtowicz SO and JR Ravetz. Uncertainty and Quality in Science for Policy. Dordrecht:
Kluwer. 1990

[13] Oreskes, N. 2004. “Beyond the Ivory Tower: The Scientific Consensus on Climate
Change.” Science 2004; 306 (5702): 1686–1686.


[14] Anderegg, WRL, JW Prall, J Harold, SH Schneider, Expert credibility in climate change.
PNAS 2010; doi: 10.1073/pnas.1003187107

[15] Oreskes, N. and E.M. Conway. Merchants of Doubt: How a Handful of Scientists Obscured
the Truth on Issues from Tobacco Smoke to Global Warming. Bloomsbury Press, 2010.


[16] Yohe, G and M. Oppenheimer. Evaluation, characterization and communication of
uncertainty by the Intergovernmental Panel on climate change – an introductory essay. Climatic
Change 2011; 108; 629-639.

[17] Curry, JAand Webster PJ. Climate science and the uncertainty monster. Bull Amer
Meteorol. Soc. 2011; 92: 1667-1682.


[18] Curry, JA. Reasoning about climate uncertainty. Climatic Change 2011; 108: 723-732

[19] Curry JA. Nullifying the climate null hypothesis. WIREs Climate Change 2011; 2: 919-
924.

[20] Singer, SF., ed. Nature, Not Human Activity, Rules the Climate: Summary for Policymakers

of the Report of the Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Chicago, IL:
Heartland Institute. 2008

[21] Gleick, PH. Climate Change and the Integrity of Science. Science 2010; 328:689-690

[22] Grundman R. The legacy of climategate: revitalizing or undermining climate change and
policy? WIRES Climate Change, 2012. doi: 10.1002/wcc.166


[23] Beck, S 2012 Between tribalism and trust: the IPCC under the “public microscope.”
Nature and Culture 2012: 7; 151–173

[24] Laudan, L. Science and Values. Berkeley CA, University of California press.1984

[25] Ziman, J. Public Knowledge, Cambridge UK Cambridge University Press. 1967


[26] Kuhn, Thomas. The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Chicago, IL: University
of Chicago Press. 1962

[27] Feyerabend, P. Against Method. London, UK Verso 1978


[28] Lehrer K. Social consensus and rational agnoiology. Synthese 1975; 31:141-160

[29] Yearley, S. Sociology and climate change after Kyoto: what roles for social science in
understanding climate change? Current Sociology 2009; 57:389-405


                                                                                             12
[30] Nickerson RS. Confirmation bias: a ubiquitous phenomenon in many guises. Rev. Gen.
Psych. 1998: 2; 175-220.

[31] Kelly, T.: 2008, ‘Disagreement, dogmatism and belief polarization’, J. Philosophy 2008;
CV: 611-633


[32] Kelly, T.: The epistemic significance of disagreement. In J. Hawthorne (ed.) Philosophical
Perspectives vol 19: Epistemology, 179-209. 2005

[33] InterAcademy Council (IAC). 2010. Climate Change Assessments: Review of the
Processes and Procedures of the IPCC. Amsterdam: InterAcademy Council.

[34] Morgan, G., H. Dowlatabadi, M. Henrion, D. Keith, R. Lempert, S. McBride M. Small, T.

Wilbanks (2009) Best Practice Approaches for Characterizing, Communicating, and
Incorporating scientific Uncertainty in Climate Decision Making. U.S. Climate Change Science
Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 5.2. NOAA, Washington, D.C.
http://www.climatescience.gov/Library/sap/sap5-2/final-report/default.htm

[35] Koriat, A. When are two heads better than one? Science 2012; 336; 360-362.


[36] Oreskes, N. Science and Public Policy: What's Proof Got to Do with It? Environmental
Science & Policy 2004; 7: 369-83.

[37] Pielke Jr, R. The honest broker: making sense of science in policy and practice. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, 188pp. Washington, D.C. 2007


[38] Collingridge, D and C. Reeve. Science Speaks to Power: the Role of Experts in Policy-
Making. London, Frances Pinter 1986

[39] Sarewitz, Daniel. Curing Climate Backlash. Nature 2010; 464: 28.

[40] Van der Sluijs. Uncertainty and dissent in climate risk assessment: a postnormal
perspective. Nature and Culture 2012: 7;174–195


[41] Hartnett, T. Consensus-Oriented Decision Making. Gabriola Island, BC, Canada: New
Society Publishers. 2011

[42] Weitzman, M.L., 2009: On modeling and interpreting the economics of catastrophic climate
change. Rev. Econ. Stat. 2009; 91; 1-19.


[43] Obersteiner, M., C. Azar, S. Kossmeier, R. Mechler, K. Mollersten, et al. Managing Climate
Risk. IR-01-051, International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, 2001.
http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Admin/PUB/Documents/IR-01-051.pdf

[44] Holt, R. ‘Risk Management: the Talking Cure’, Organization 2004; 11(2): 251-70.


[45] Beck, S. Between tribalism and trust: the IPCC under the “public microscope.” Nature and
Culture 7(2); 2012: 151–173




                                                                                              13
[46] Horn, RE and RP Weber. New Tools for Resolving Wicked Problems: Mess Mapping and

Resolution Mapping Processes 3 (MacroVU(r), Inc. & Strategy Kinetics LLC, 2007.
http://www.strategykinetics.com//New_Tools_For_Resolving_ Wicked_Problems.pdf.

[47] Prins G and S Rayner. The wrong trousers: Radically rethinking climate policy. James
Martin Institute for Science and Civilization, Saïd Business School, Park End Street, Oxford OX1
1HP. 2007

[48] Oppenheimer, M, BC O’Neill, M Webster, and S Agrawala. The Limits of Consensus,

Science; 2007: 317; 1505-1506.

[49] Gruebler, Aand N Nakicenovic. Identifying dangers in an uncertain climate: We need to
research all the potential outcomes, not try to guess which is likeliest to occur. Nature 2001; 412:
15

[50] Hasselman, K The climate change game. Nature Geoscience 2010; 3: 511-512.


[51] McCright Aand R Dunlap. Cool dudes: the denial of climate change among conservative
white males in the United States. Global Environmental Change 2011; 21: 1163-1172

[52] Demerritt, D. The Construction of Global Warming and the Politics of Science. Annals of
the Association of American Geographers 2001; 91 (2): 307-337.


[53] Pielke R. Postnormal science in a German landscape. Nature and Culture 7(2), 2012: 196–
212

[54] Wynne, B. When Doubt Becomes a Weapon. Nature 2010; 466 (7305): 441–442.

[55] Socolow, RH. High-consequence outcomes and internal disagreements: tell us more please.
Climatic Change 2011: 108; 775-790


[56] Gross, Matthias. Ignorance and Surprise: Science, Society and Ecological Design.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 2010

[57] Lempert, R J . ANew Decision Sciences for Complex Systems. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 2002;
99: 7309-7313.

[58] Bammer G and M. Smithson. Uncertainty and Risk: Multidisciplinary Perspectives.

Earthscan Publications Ltd, 2008.

[59] Funtowicz, SO and JR Ravetz. Science for the post-normal age. Futures 193; 25; 739-755.














                                                                                           14
Zero Carbon Bill Submission: Supplementary Comments

David Riddell
The Discussion Document refers repeatedly to adverse weather events already becoming

more common, yet this is not supported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change. The chapter on extreme weather in their most recent Assessment Report (AR5)
says (pp. 214-216):

   “In summary, there continues to be a lack of evidence and thus low confidence
   regarding the sign of trend in the magnitude and/or frequency of floods on a global
   scale. … In summary, the current assessment concludes that there is not enough
   evidence at present to suggest more than low confidence in a global-scale observed

   trend in drought or dryness (lack of rainfall) since the middle of the 20th century. …
   Current data sets indicate no significant observed trends in global tropical cyclone
   frequency over the past century. ... In summary, there is low confidence in observed
   trends in small-scale severe weather phenomena such as hail and thunderstorms
   because of historical data inhomogeneities and inadequacies in monitoring systems."

In other words it is not possible, according to the IPCC, to make a strong scientific case for
an increase in adverse weather events, much less tie these to human greenhouse gas
emissions, yet the Discussion Document (among many other sources) treats this as

unassailable fact. In his introduction to the Document, the Hon. James Shaw refers to the
warm weather and associated high sea temperatures last summer, although these were a
strictly local phenomenon, not representative of temperatures globally. In the tropical
eastern Pacific for example, temperatures were significantly cooler than normal (1). The
Minister also notes the number of cyclones that passed through the New Zealand region,
while omitting to mention that overall cyclonic activity in the South Padific was slightly

below average last summer (2). This is cherry picking; it is not scientific evidence for
climate change.
                                                                              th
Although there has indeed been a rise in global temperatures since the 19 century (much   th
of it prior to the rapid expansion in human greenhouse gas emissions from the mid-20
century), observed temperatures according to the IPCC are falling behind model
projections (3). Despite an El Nino-driven spike in 2016, this trend still holds true (4, 5).

The Discussion Document mentions that future climate change is “locked in”. This is quite
correct: temperatures will continue to increase even if all of the proposed Zero Carbon
initiatives, and others like them in other countries, are implemented. The question is what
the difference in temperature is likely to be if we commit to this campaign, compared to

what it would be if we did nothing. Model projections indicate that all climate policies by
the US, China, the EU and the rest of the world, implemented from the early 2000s to 2030
and sustained through the century, will likely reduce global temperature rise about 0.17°C
in 2100 (6). This seems a very small return for the trillions of dollars in direct and indirect
costs these policies will require to implement; it may be better to invest our resources
elsewhere.

The Government has clearly decided on a plan of action well before the commencement of
this consultation process, and public input will be limited to minor details. Legislated

emissions reduction targets and/or a commitment to net zero emissions could commit
future generations to an inflexible economic and social framework with consequences that
cannot be envisaged in 2018. The Bill, if passed, has the potential to do significant harm
to this country by suppressing economic activity, creating financial hardship for the most
vulnerable members of our society, reducing their access to energy, and diverting
resources away from more serious environmental issues and programmes. To give one
example, there is another proposal to transform the country's environmental practices
which also has a deadline of 2050, namely the Predator Free New Zealand intitiative. If
successful, this could transform the fortunes of our threatened and endangered flora and
fauna, but it will require significant resources, research and commitment to achieve. It
would be a tragedy if it were sidelined in the rush to meet emissions reduction targets
which may turn out to be unnecessary and/or unattainable.

I do not support the introduction of this Bill, in any form.



References

1 - Global setting: January 2018 - www.niwa.co.nz/climate/nzcu/new-zealand-climate-
update-224-february-2018/global-setting-january-2018

2 - 2017-18 South Pacific Cyclone Season – en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017-
18_South_Pacific_cyclone_season

3 - IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, Fig. 11.25a, p. 1011, see
judithcurry.com/2014/01/06/ipcc-ar5-weakens-the-case-for-agw

4 - Cockburn, Harry 2017: Global warming may be occurring more slowly than previously
thought, study suggests. The Independent, 19 September 2017.
www.independent.co.uk/environment/climate-change-global-warming-paris-climate-
agreement-nature-geoscience-myles-allen-michael-grubb-a7954496.html

5 - Millar, R. J.; Fuglestvedt, J. S.; Friedlingstein, P.; Rogelj, J.; Grubb, M. J.; Matthews, H.
D.; Skeie, R. B.; Forster, P. M.; Frame, D. J.; Allen, M. R. 2017: Emission budgets and
pathways consistent with limiting warming to 1.5 °C. Nature Geoscience 10, 741–747.

6 – Lomborg, B. 2015: Impact of Current Climate Proposals. Global Policy 7(1): 109-118.
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1758-5899.12295
