Your submission to Zero Carbon Bill

Linda Hill






Reference no: 3113


Submitter Type:    Individual

 Clause
 1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation?
 Position

 The Government sets a 2050 target in legislation now
 Notes



 Clause

 2. If the Government sets a 2050 target now, which is the best target for New Zealand?
 Position
 Net Zero Emissions - Net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases by 2050

 Notes



 Clause
 3. How should New Zealand meet its targets?

 Position
 Domestic emissions reductions only (including from new forest planting)

 Notes
 We should not be buying (probably dodgy) emissions credits from other countries, or sell any surplus of ours to other countries. If the
 world is going to achieve this, not just play market gambling games, we all need to pull our own weight with serious policy to achieve

 serious reductions asap.



 Clause
 4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?

 Position
 No
 Notes

 Only if we meet our targets early and can reduce emissions even further. But that's unlikely on our present record!



 Clause
 6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?

 Position
 No - emissions budgets should not be able to be changed
 Notes

 If we do better than the target on one budget, the next budget should be for the same amount of reduction so we reach the overall
 goal faster. You know we have to tie our govts into this legislative programme



 Clause

 7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific range under
 exceptional circumstances? See p36 Our Climate Your Say
 Position

 No
 Notes

 This is the exceptonal circumstance - the planet is frying.



 Clause
 8. Do you agree with the considerations we propose that the Government and the Climate Change Commission take into account

 when advising on and setting budgets? See p44 Our Climate Your Say
 Notes
 I like the three government objectives for climate change policy: sustainable economy, global and local leadership and creating a just

 and inclusive society. I like the Treaty of Waitangi consideration. Bullet points 3-6, esp the 'in particular' bits, sound like a future
 Commission/govt could use them for good or ill - and they must be used to achieve the emissions reduction goals. I'd like to change
 the words 'in particular' for 'despite'. They must have some flexibility, sure, should look at these bullet point in order to achieve but

 may not use them to under-budget or under target or under achieve they have to get us to net zero by 2050 Can you please write it
that way? You know that before 2050 we risk getting another govt that doesn't give a damn. Could allow flexibility to maybe identify

and include further factor themselves if necessary without needing new legislation



Clause

9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the emissions budgets?
Position
Yes

Notes
yes, well ahead of time.




Clause
10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For example, who do we
need to work with, what else needs to be considered?

Notes
I agree with the govt's energy and transport goals so far and the billion trees (only 217 each over 10 years), what worries me is that

land use change policies won't be strong enough, it'll just be 'nudging' that gets nowhere, party political compromises etc. We need
to seriously reduce dairy and other ruminants and move to more crops (instead of importing grains/pulses) and more horticulture and

stop importing so much stuff we could grow, with freight emissions we don't count. Govt needs to MAKE this happen, not just
encourage.



Clause

11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's progress towards
its goals. Do you agree with these functions? See p42 Our Climate Your Say

Notes
1-4 functions agreed. Not 5, that's buying other people's dodgy carbon credits again, isn't it? We MUST NOT allow that, we have to do

our own reductions, meetin our own targets in this country.



Clause
12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme

(NZ ETS)?
Position

Makes decisions itself in respect of the number of units available in the NZ ETS
Notes

AND advises govt on stuff. Transparent monitoring and analysis of the ETS and how it's working and published advice to govt. Sorry,
don't trust every possible govt between now and 2050



Clause

13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and desirable expertise.
Do you agree with the proposed expertise? See p45 Our Climate Your Say

Position
Yes
Notes

The 8 essential area of expertise should be pretty much covered between them, but they should also be able to second any
expertise they need. Never mind the business competitiveness, that's not the goal, we don't need BNZ on this. Not everybody needs

to be a fancy professional, just expert and good at what they do and seriously personally concerned about climate change. Make
sure there are lots of women and Maori and someone from our low lying Pacific territories all thinking about the future for our kids, not

about business as usual.



Clause
14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

Notes
No, that's a different issue, heavily involves local govt decision making, it's a whole other important project, might need a whole other

Commission/body to work with this one. But at the moment I want us to focus on STOPPING change, not adapting to it!



Clause
15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree with the proposed

functions? See p47 Our Climate Your Say
Notes

I like bullet points on top of p.48 and CC Adaption Tech Working Group and national adaptation plan, but this should not be conflated
into the work of the CC Commission in reducing our emissions, overviewing the ETS (since govt has chosen that as main plank) and

helping NZ prevent climate change. As in 14 above, this needs a whole different group and progamme of work involving local govt
and different players. PS I hate the word resilient - it means 'oh how good you are at continuing to put up with shit' - and 'adaption' is a

bad idea too, I don't want us to adapt because I don't think we can. How about 'Facing climate change'?
Clause
16. Should we explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some organisations share information on their

exposure to climate change risks?
Notes
Yes govt should be responsible for this, they'll probably have to pay out for various disasters, but as well as govt and buildiing it into

govt depts' role/programmes, there needs to be an overview body that reviews coordiinates directs reports, advises govt and local
govt, etc But not the CC Commission because this has a very different role/goal, they could work together where appropriate



Clause

Do you have any other comments you'd like to make?
Notes

Thank god government is finally taking this seriously, because it's seriously scary.



 Supporting documents from your Submission



  Hill_submission_Climate_Change_Targets_3.6.15.pdf                    Uploaded on 07/04/2018 at 05:13PM


  Hill_sub_Productivity_Commission_6.6.pdf                             Uploaded on 07/04/2018 at 05:14PM
Linda Hill(PhD)










Submission on the government’s

Climate Change Target Discussion Document



I am a retired policy researcher living on the Kapiti Coast. Although it’s not an area I have worked in,
I try to keep up with the science of climate change – it is the issue that keeps me awake at night.


I agree totally with the Discussion Document’s opening statement that world-wide action to reduce
green house gas emissions has not been strong enough. Certainly New Zealand’s hasn’t. Per head
of population, New Zealand is the world’s fourth highest carbon emitter.    With successive
governments fluffing around, engaging only in an ineffective emissions trading policy, we have failed

dismally on bringing emissions 5% below our 1990 level by 2020 . This is acknowledged in the
Discussion Document, which states we are currently heading for 35% above the 1990 level by 2020
(p.14) if we carry on like this, and appears for that reason to be suggesting letting our 2035-2040
performance slip to 15-20% above 1990. That is not acceptable.


On the contrary, our failure to date means New Zealand needs to take serious action to achieve our
2020 target, even if late, and also to reduce emissions by a similar amount for the 2020 to 2035
period. We need to get serious about this. The reason we are so far behind is that governments set

the current target then did little or nothing to achieve it. To do our share to keep global warming to
an average increase of 2 o, we need a very ambitious domestic targets from now on – and we need to
implement a serious and ambitious set of cross-government policies to make sure we achieve them.


Relying, even partly, on an international emissions market to exist, to work, and to have high enough
prices get ourselves out of this hole by purchasing other countries’ carbon credits is, in my view, a
totally inadequate and irresponsible approach for New Zealand governments to take. It does matter

where emission reductions occur (p.11); it has to happen in developed countries like ours with
higher per capita emissions. If New Zealand, with our energy advantages, can’t – or won’t bother –
to reduce emissions, who will?


What does climate change mean for New Zealand?

A 2 global average increase, let alone the very possible 3.5 or 4 , will include fluctuations and
regional variations and effects that, as you say, could devaste our temperate climate agriculture,

foresty and fisheries. Changes already being reported include Antartica ocean warming and iceshelf
thinning that is sending ‘roaring forties’ weather further north, towards us. High ocean
temperatures in the tropical Pacific are expected to bring an El Niño this year, and more frequently.
The Discussion Document doesn’t mention the effects rising temperatures as well as extreme

weather can have on temperate food plants (germination, pollination systems and fruit setting). It
does mention the human costs of regional climate change and how New Zealand will deal with
those. New Zealanders will expect to welcome the small populations of Tuvalu and Tokalau once the
water gets to their knees, but what about South East Asia, one of the regions where food production


                                                                                                       1
is expected to be hardest hit by changing temperatures and shifting rainfall patterns? Little New
Zealand can’t solve climate change on its own, you say; but we will have to face on our own all the
future problems that result from climate change– so we had better take effective action now.

Now that governments have had to recognise the science, please don’t let’s hide behind

‘uncertainties’ about international agreements, rules and technology, so as to waste more time
doing very little. No, we are not ‘unusual’, and therefore to be excused, because we ‘feed the world’
with lovely dairy products from farty cows. This is spurious argument. The 850 million who do not
have enough to eat cannot afford imported New Zealand cheeses, baby formula, or meat.

This is the most important policy matter facing our generation – and our grandchildren’s. The
economic costs the Consultation Document discusses pale beside the costs of continuing to do
nothing. Make no mistake, our economy can’t afford climate change. Effective action will require
political will – considerably more of John Key’s ‘guts’ than troup deployment. Carbon markets and
land use policies are not enough – what we need is a raft of integrated cross-government policies

that go much wider than that. I suggest some further below.

To focus minds…


I’d like to draw attention to the recently released Oslo Principles on Global Clmate Change
Obligations, adopted by an impressive team of experts in international law, human rights law,
environmental law and other law. These principles articulate the essential obligations that states
have under current law to avert the critical level of global warming. No, not just an worthy

statement by an august body – this is the basis in law on which countries like Bangadesh and Tuvalu
are entitled to sue billions out of countries like us who now know we are causing excess emissions,
know we should be doing something, and in fact do very little.


The Discussion Document asks what is a ‘fair’ target, what would other countries think is our ‘fair’
contribution. This reads as, what is the least that we can get away with? It acknowledges that our
per capita greenhouse gas is twice the global average. Then fudges the fact that New Zealand’s

‘unique’ contribution to global warming is disproportionsate2y methane driven. And Box 3 fudges on
the effects of methane. Methane is shorter lived than CO     but more efficient at trapping radiation,
so its impact on climate change is 25 times greater over 100 years (US EPA).


To me, these sections of the Discussion Document read as morally bankrupt – and in the light of Oslo
Principles, legally risky. We all –all countries – need to be honest in our efforts and doing everything
we possibly can, to avert the biggest environmental and economic disaster we could ever face.


Q.1 What do I think of the Objectives?

I think the three stated Objectives are rather vague and woolly. How do they link the goal of

reducing New Zealand’s emissions to any concrete actions? They don’t. The government appears to
have no plan, beyond picking a number for Paris. The Document is focused on persuading us to
approve a low target, as long as it doesn’t reflect too badly on our international image.. It provides a
cryptic paragraph about modelling and discusses how our choice of target will affect our economy

and household incomes. What is glaringly missing is what our current path of emissions and global
warming will cost the economy and households. It is distorting to consult on setting an international
target in this way, devoid of any serious discussion of what the government is actually going to do
about it and how. The only policy clues are ‘uncertainties’ related to Costs of the Target (p.13),

which reflect an approach that is already failing.

1. It is seen as a fair and ambitious contribution – both by international and domestic audiences

                                                                                                       2
Given that we are slipping behind our present 5%-below-1990-by-2020 commitment, it is time for us

to focus on the ‘ambitious’ part of this objective. Every country no doubt sees its own ‘unique
national circumstances’; there are plenty of ways New Zealand can reduce our emission markedly if
we actually try, starting with government leadership and effective wide-ranging policies.

2. Costs and impacts on society are managed appropriately


We need more than management of the costs and impacts on society; we need governmetn ot take
a strong in managing the whole change to a low carbon economy, including agriculture, transport,
eneregy and industry - through intergrated policy and budget redirection (including shifting

subsidies/incentives from high to low carbon options.

‘Appropriately’ is a bit of a weasel word. It is not appropriate to be ‘fair’ to carbon fuel industries; it
is inevitable that they be phased out; they should diversify fast. High emission industries have been
passing the cost and environmental impacts of their production on to everyone’s grandchildren.

Carbon charges are not ‘unfair’ to high emission industries, or even to small farmers; they are a
market signal. It is intended that not pay these charges by changing by their practices - their type of
energy business, their livestock, pasture and fodder, go organic, whatever – there are many options.
Transition should be supported but not totally paid for. Offshore ownership of production decisions
means that regulation, as well as carbon charges, will probably be needed to achieve a fair

transition.

3. It must guide New Zealand over the long term in the global transition to a low emissions world


It will take more than a target or a weak emissions trading scheme to do that. It will take serious
planning by government, and a set of strong interrelated policies across government departments,
supported by future-focused business and agricultural sectors. The market will not deliver on its
own.



Instead, I support an ambitious target and a better set of Objectives for policy action

The government needs a Grand Plan, one we can all believe in and get behind. This Discussion
Document doesn’t even hint that they have one. Its current emission trading policy has failed, so

relying on the emergence of a international emissions trading market that actually works (p.13) is
not a plan. Shuffling credits between fluctuating (or failing) economies does little to reduce global
warming. And why would New Zealanders want to send our taxes offshore to ‘invest’ in other
countries’ carbon sinks instead of our own?


A better set of Objectives would direct the goal of carbon reduction to the key areas in which policy
and action are needed:
    •   Agriculture
    •   Forest

    •   Energy
    •   Forest
    •   Transport

    •   Industry (including Fair Transition)

Targets need to be set in each of these areas, with a wide ranging but highly integrated set of
policies to achieve them. Some of this will be about redirecting budget and current incentives from
carbon fuel industries to new tech and low carbon business. Regional development policy will be


                                                                                                    3
important to ensure a Fair Transition for employees. All Cabinet papers should require statements

on ‘Implications for emissions reduction and fair transition’. Regulatory transition periods must be
very short (like, next 1 April), to avoid industry shinanagins like the Waikato forestry-to-dairy
conversions to preempt carbon credit restrictions, and Shell Todd ‘forgetting’ to apply for its EPA
consent.


Effective policy will have to include a tax on carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions. Clearly
New Zealand’s current emissions trading scheme hasbeen a dismal failure – see Box 7, p.14 – and
we need to bite the bullet.


New Zealand’s largest dependence on fossil fuels is for transport, a key area for policy change.
Serious policy action to shift people and freight onto rail and other electric transport can reduce
emissions and reduce the overseas deficit. This is a far better use of tax revenue than buying other
cuntries credits. New goals should be set for Land transport that get them over their fixation on
expensive expressways to save a few minutes.



Q.2 What do I think of the nature of New Zealand’s emissions and economy means for the level
of target that we set?


I think that the nature of the above fudging on methane means the government is trying to set
targets that are too low. Every country has its own set of circumstances to respond to. We can’t

continue to exempt agriculture, just because we have comparative advantage in our eneregy sector.
We can’t continue the expansion of the methane-producing (and nitrate polluting) dairy industry
over former forestry and crop lands, and allow its disproportionate influence. We need agriculture
and horticultural diversity. We need value-added forestry.


I’d rather New Zealand set and failed to meet an ambitious target than failed to try hard enough.
Let’s forget about what ‘audiences’ think, and other countries’ costs, and take this issue serously. If
between 2005 and 2020 we are supposed to get to 5% below our 1990 level, then surely we should

set a target of at least 15 % below the 1990 level by 2035. New Zealand policy should also set
separate domestic targets for carbon diaoxide, for methane, for nitrous gases and for synthetics.


Q.3 What level of cost is appropriate for New Zealand to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions?

For example, what would be a reasonable reduction in annual household consumption?

You can’t just buy a new climate cheap! That’s how we got where we are, by not counting and

costing environmental impacts. By governments relying on ‘the market’ instead of on research
evidence and effective policy action.

Moreover, Q.3 is a badly slanted question, directed to get a ‘do nothing’ response. The paragraph

on carbon price modelling and economic impacts is too cryptic to be useful. A fair question would
include discussion of the economic and social costs of even a 2o average increase, and extremely
high costs if we fail to keep to that. It should also be based on the discussion of the opportunities in

the next section. The potential costs of climate change, fiscal costs of policy action and potential
economic benefits of low-carbon agriculture, transport and industry and getting into new technology
fast should all be taken together. A good proportion of the fiscal costs will be in redirecting budget,

subsidies and incentives.


                                                                                                       4
Q4 . Of these opportunities which do you think arethe most likely to occur, or be most important
for New Zealand?

I see a lot of opportunities in shifting direction from what we have been doing in recent years. Our

high emissions, high fuel miles economic is very recent; we don’t have to do things that way. We
can diversifying agriculture to more non-emitting stock, crops and horticulture; expand forestry land
and export added-value timber and furniture; shift people and freight onto electric rail and other
transport. Public transport and rail freight would be far more effective in reducing emisisons in the

next 20-30 years than carbon trading (Sims, Dominion 10.11.2014).

Q5. How should New Zealand take into account the future uncertainties of technologies and costs
when setting its target?


Life is uncertain. However, a great deal of international and New Ealand research has gone into
warning us about what is happening to the planet, and why. An global average temperature rise of
         o
at least 2 is already certain. It is certain that New Zealand’s carbon emissions are rising, not being
reduced. So let’s do something about it.


Strong leadership is needed now – let it be your legacy.









































                                                                                                       5
PS: Here are a few policy suggestions:


    •   A target of 15% below 1990 levels by 2035
    •   Domestic subtargets for carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, synthetic greenhouse gases
    •   An integrated set of targets and policies for agriculture, forestry, energy and transport

    •   Publicity and promotion – never mind carbon credit, take political credit!
    •   Shift agriculture focus to low emission animals of all types or more horticulture
    •   Lower use of artificial fertiliser through soil science and pasture/plant diversification (eg
        lucerne), or tapping into the high end international market for organic foods – New

        Zealand’s great lost opportunity.
    •   Stop importing food we used to grow here – like Canterbury wheat.
    •   Expand land in forestry; incentivise industries to use NZ wood rather than sell imports
    •   Support a Fair Transition away from coal on the West Coast

    •   Drop exploration permits and subsidies for oil and gas;
    •   Refine more of our own oil and gas for petrol, instead of selling it offshore, buying it and
        paying all those tanker costs in the price. Post peak oil, we’ll always be last in the
        deliver/profit chain.

    •   Policy and investment that shifts people and freight off the roads and onto electrified public
        transport and freight trains
    •   Call Rio Tinto’s Bluff and let them go off shore; instead subsidise another business for a year
        or two to go down and provide jobs (regional policy). We’d then have lots of spare, cheap

        electrcity to underpin the transition to a lower carbon economy, including more public
        transport and rail freight.
    •   Tax aviation fuel like we do car fuel – or, if that’s too much of an international effort,
        increase that new travel tax. Air travel is far too cheap; I can fly to UK for less than in 1970.

    •   Legislate short fixed transition periods for any regulations (like, next 1 April) to ensure no
        more gaping loopholes and routs like the Waikato forest-land-to-dairy or Shell Todd
        ‘forgetting’ to apply for its Environmental Protection Consent.
    •   Stand up to business sector pressures: they know it’s got to happen, they have
        grandchildren too. But they’ll push the envelope if it works.

    •   Bit the bullet fast and be able to market the New Zealand economy and produce as low
        carbon. The people who buy clean-green New Zealand agricultural produce worry about the
        planet. New Zealand can increase its competitive advantage if we take this seriously,
        quickly. ‘Fourth biggest per capita emitter’ does not market well.






















                                                                                                    6
