Your submission to Zero Carbon Bill

Neil Curtis, Neil & Yvonne Curtis








Reference no: 9683

Submitter Type:   Individual

 Clause
 Do you have any other comments you'd like to make?

 Notes
 The intent of the Bill to combat climate disruption is good. However the approach, questions and suggested solutions may not the
 most appropriate response for New Zealand to ameliorate the immanent future climatic catastrophe. See attached document.



  Supporting documents from your Submission



   Response_to_climate_change_mitigation_proposals-..              Uploaded on 07/16/2018 at 01:06PM
    Response to climate change mitigation proposals in the Zero Carbon Bill

The intent of the Bill to combat climate disruption is good. However the approach,
questions and suggested solutions may not the most appropriate response for New
Zealand to ameliorate the immanent future climatic catastrophe. The intent to comply

with the requirements of the Paris Agreement is praiseworthy, but because of our
unique pattern of emissions, a focus on ghg emissions is not an optimal contribution
for New Zealand. It is the total ghg content in the atmosphere, which has been and
is still being increased by human activity, which is responsible for the current climate
disruption.

New Zealand contributes an insignificant proportion of the global green-house gas

emissions responsible for increasing climate disruption, but as a responsible global
citizen must do what it can to ameliorate the problem. Carbon-free by 2050 is an
appropriate target, but as ever, the devil is in the detail.

We have taken a “not specified” stance on all the questions as will be seen from our
submission below. We consider that at a national level any legislation needs to be
broad, flexible and acceptable to a majority of the population. Hence we are

suggesting an overall tax on all carbon fuels would be the simplest, fairest and most
effective response, providing incentives to “decarbonize” the economy at all levels.
This should at first be set at a low level, but be steadily ramped up until the “carbon
free” target is achieved. The tax collected should be used partly to foster carbon-

reducing developments and partly to compensate citizens for resulting cost
increases.

                 ----------------------------------------------------------------------

The proposals in the questionnaire focus on reducing nett greenhouse gas (ghg)
emissions to zero by 2050. But, climate disruptione is driven by total ghg content in
the atmosphere, not by current emissions.

It would be a mistake to focus on nett emissions because the different ghgs have
very different impacts on the long-term total ghg content in the atmosphere. The

primary greenhouse gas culprits are carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide.
The residence time of added carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is thousands of

years. This carbon dioxide primarily arises from the burning of fossil fuels, in order of
obnoxiousness: coal, oil, natural gas.

The residence time of methane is about 12 years (on average) as it is converted to
carbon dioxide.

However, there are two principle sources of methane, biological and fossil.

Biological methane arises from anaerobic biological processes, as from swamps,
paddy fields and ruminants. The carbon in this methane came from carbon dioxide in
the atmosphere, via photosynthesis, so this emission has no long-term impact on the

ghg content of the atmosphere.

Fossil methane comes from coal mining, leaks of natural gas from wells, pipelines
and fracking, and from methane clathrates in the arctic tundra and sea floor. After
conversion to carbon dioxide this methane adds to the permanent ghg content of
the atmosphere, and so contributes to the long-term problem.

Nitrous oxide is the third important ghg. It is a potent ghg, but is slowly converted
into dinitrogen, with a half-life of about 120 years. Nitrous oxide is part of the natural

nitrogen cycle. Dinitrogen from the atmosphere is “fixed” by electrical storms and by
nitrogen-fixing bacteria in the soil and plant roots and then becomes available to
plants, and ultimately to all life forms. In the natural cycle this nitrogen is returned to
the soil by decay, where it is biologically converted into nitrous oxide and released to
the atmosphere, where it is converted back into dinitrogen. The natural system is in

equilibrium, with no nett change in the nitrous oxide content of the atmosphere over
time, or on the climate. Humans have upset this balance by using the Haber process
to manufacture nitrogenous fertilizers. The nitrogen in this comes from the
atmosphere, and ultimately returns to the atmosphere, but in the overall process the

equilibrium nitrous oxide content in the atmosphere is increased. More seriously, the
manufacturing process uses methane (as natural gas) which is released as carbon
dioxide and adds to the permanent ghg content of the atmosphere.

The optimal response to the climate disruption debate is to focus on reducing the
total radiative “forcing” in the atmosphere, but the best specific actions depend on

the chosen time-frame. Carbon dioxide is permanent, methane is 200 times as
effective as a ghg gas as carbon dioxide, but has a half-life of 12 years, and nitrous
oxide is 330 times as effective and has a half-life of 120 years. Mitigation by tree
planting reduces carbon dioxide levels until the forest is mature (hundreds of years
for permanent forestry, 30 years for pine plantation forestry), thereafter has no effect.

Short-term emissions would be best reduced by reducing intensive dairy farming

and planting trees. Growth in long-term ghg content would be best reduced by
targeting the use of fossil fuels. Choosing between these options depends on
whether the priority is to focus on complying with the Paris Accord targets or
minimizing long-term climate change.

New Zealand is in an anomalous position because of the way emissions under the
Paris Accord are calculated. We are (almost) unique in generating most of our

electricity sustainably, so our agricultural emissions become a more significant
fraction of our overall emissions. Attempting to comply with emission targets would
divert effort from reducing our contribution to the ghg content in the atmosphere,
which would be our most useful contribution to the world’s problem.

An overall tax on all carbon fuels would be the simplest, fairest and most effective

response, providing incentives to “decarbonize” the economy at all levels. A tax at
the source on all fossil carbon fuels: all oil (local and imported), coal mined, and
natural gas extracted would be simple to implement and difficult to evade. A tariff on
embedded carbon in imports from countries without effective local carbon charges

would be necessary to protect local industries. The tax collected could be used to
foster carbon-reducing developments, distributed equally to all citizens or
compensate citizens for increased costs. Carbon trading schemes, while superficially
attractive, seem to be inherently avoidable, corruptible and ineffective.
Focussing attention on ghg emissions diverts attention in New Zealand towards
agriculture, particularly intensive dairy farming. Methane emissions from grass-fed
ruminants do not add to the long-term ghg content of the atmosphere and are

largely irrelevant to climate change. More problematic nitrous oxide emissions could
be reduced by modifying farming practices, reduced ruminant density, and reduced
and more selective use of nitrogenous fertilizers – effectively less intensive farming.
These changes would also reduce the serious and growing problem of nitrate

leaching into waterways. A carbon tax would provide incentives for agriculture to
reduce the carbon dioxide emissions from agricultural machinery, associated
transport and nitrogenous fertilizer manufacture, without any troublesome specific
taxes on farming activities.





N.F. Curtis, MSc. PhD, FRSNZ.

Yvonne Curtis MSc

15 July, 2018
