Your submission to Zero Carbon Bill

                              Thomas George Adson








Reference no: 10776

Submitter Type:     Individual

 Clause
 1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation?

 Notes
 See final note, and read the cited document/email from                   Tom Adson and forwarded to 'ZCB@mfe.govt.nz', 17 July

 2018



 Clause
 Do you have any other comments you'd like to make?
 Notes

 Information relevant to this topic that I have seen to date is as wide and as deep as you can get, like the Pacific Ocean, but all of it
 lacks a locus or a single point of leverage. The message that looms in my mind is that, “New Zealand Must Have a Smart Energy

 Management System”….Now! It is where a realistic and achievable Zero Carbon Plan must start. Making use of it will create a
 projection along a timeline that ends in zero thirty years from now (16 July 2018) by adherence under the appropriate legislation. All
 Kiwi’s must live under the symbolic energy-tight roof that the project line and “Carbon Zero Act” creates. See sample of project line

 below. The Smart Energy Management system must be developed by those who fully understand the scientific, engineering and
 technological requirements, and they will be responsible for ensuring the information gathered is useable, accurate and honest, and

 is free from vested interest and deviant behaviour. Perhaps we can call this body of ‘thinkers’ a “Science, Engineering and
 Technology Commission”. The quality of the information is paramount. Others can use the data for the decision making process via
 the political arena which must focus on fairness and positive social outcomes. But the supporting data provided once authenticated

 and signed off, must not be changed or tinkered with. The key social tool is to develop a ‘live’ and accurate NZ Sanky Diagram that
 truly represents the fully dynamic national energy transformation flow. It must be permanently available on the web, so that its main
 benefit will be that of education; but there will be countless other benefits too, which will keep everyone busy and perhaps

 productive . If ordinary people can see progress is being made they often become enthused and interested, and then get in behind.
 See example of ‘Sanky Diagram’ below. Dollars and cents should not be included because it skews reality. ‘Joules (the unit of energy,

 and the cubit of our modern world)’ is the real measure (standard) that everyone needs to become acquainted with. Dollars have
 their use, and are just another important tool that can be used to facilitate progress by unsticking wheels and ensure forward motion,
 but it must be used in the most appropriate way and subordinate to the metric of the Joule. The above is the key message. Much of

 the material I have seen to date is of high quality, plausible and thoroughly researched by good and dedicated people, but only those
 with PhD’s and the like will understand what it is all about, but the other 95 to 80% won’t have a clue and therefore they will rubbish it
 and not provide the support that is needed. Even the best, cleverest and most sincere politicians will fail. For the multitude “Keep it

 Simple” as they are the ones that must be persuaded and then convinced in a positive way. Communication is the key and a national
 ‘Sanky Diagram’ illustrating the energy transformation process would be the most powerful one for getting the most important

 message of our time across to almost everyone. Other charts, symbols and graphics can be used as aids. Cameos, serials and charts
 and information pathways for drilling wide and deep for detail and expert data, but it must start with simplicity. See examples below
 (but use Jules {after all she’s much prettier and socially acceptable, and work alongside “Max”…”Jules and Max the Dynamic Duo” …

 even a little humour can be used to keep the learning process positive and stimulating}; BUT not tweets, although in the
 background they might help to measure public reaction and support. The above proposal is a better way of doing things than in the

 past. We don’t necessarily have to get positive results by doing it all by the use of just an alphabet, as is the case in the West. We can
 also use symbols and icons like the Chinese and Asians do, and innovate too. We need to… no, must give it a go, now! Results are
 what counts. This is the way, Nothing Else Will Work…Believe it! Please note the original document has been sent to

 'ZCB@mfe.govt.nz' from                    . Itr should be read because it contains graphics, which need to be seen in order to
 reflect the true context. TOM Adson
