Your submission to Zero Carbon Bill





Reference no: 11563


Submitter Type:     Individual

 Clause
 4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?
 Position

 Yes
 Notes



 Clause
 Do you have any other comments you'd like to make?

 Notes
 The science behind this is politically motivated and the models are being constantly revised and changed as they fail to accurately
 predict the changes we are seeing in the climate. We need to understand the effect of Space Weather and the effect of the sun

 being at a solar minimum on the planet. The weather is changing on every planet in our solar system not just Earth. This is easily
 verifiable and noted by NASA and other space agencies around the world. So are we sure that it is the CO2 causing the climate to

 change? Greenhouse effect is definitely real but is it really as bad as we are being made to believe? People don't want to accept that
 in order to get research grants you have to not go too far outside established theory. Who decides who gets the research grants?
 Just like Doctors promoted science or the Catholic Church refused to accept a heliocentric model scientists can and do get it wrong

 sometimes at a grand scale. When we look at the biggest polluters in the world they are not those being most targeted by climate
 change law. This is because they are so called 'developing nations' such as China and India. Although they have made commitments
 and are making some token gestures they continue to pollute on a scale that dwarfs NZ. Even if we were to purposefully pollute and

 emit carbon as much as we could we couldn't ever hope to match even a tiny portion of what they output. Right now our economy
 isn't doing well. 15% GST on basic food items, increasing fuel tax, ignoring our natural gas reserves and other natural resources, and
 other taxes are making NZ an unproductive nation where people cannot/don't want to open businesses. We are not in any way big

 enough to be considered part of this problem where it is worth hurting our economy. We are not a rich nation. We are far poorer than
 other nations which are considered developing and falling further behind. We need to make sure our economy is strong otherwise
 our emissions certainly will drop if we enter into a Venezuela type situation. For example, if something like Mad Cow Disease broke

 out here think of what a position we would be in. This is not the only scenario we should be considering. An Earthquake in Auckland
 which damaged the harbor bridge is another example of something that would cripple us economically. We absolutely must put our
 economy first before we start to consider global commitments and virtue signaling. There's no point in being the #1 in reduced

 carbon emissions on the hollowed out shell of a nation.



  You have elected to withhold your personal details from publication.
