Your submission to Zero Carbon Bill

David Henley, David Laird Henley







Reference no: 11760

Submitter Type:    Individual

 Clause
 Do you have any other comments you'd like to make?
 Notes

 1. NZ should take the opportunity to consider and learn from the system wide (low-carbon) transition approaches currently underway
 in the EU flagship regions - Rotterdam, Luxembourg & Haut de France. (see below) – supported by the EU Commission funding
 priority realignment (Digital Europe). This includes learning about the process of collaborative planning and enablement in those

 economies and regions & the lessons from implementation. These approaches are being adopted by credible OECD economies &
 go beyond a GHG reduction framing or focus – to an economic paradigm shift / system wide framing. Hence, they offer a great
 opportunity for us to learn from and inform our transition philosophy & indeed take our approach to a new innovative level of ambition.

 2. Our Transition conversation & approach would benefit from being primarily framed as a societal economic transition (that is also
 low-carbon) – that incorporates the multiple societal challenges & opportunities we face in the 21st Century, rather than a primary
 focus on GHG reductions (although these are obviously crucial). Given this would - by default - be a more systemic conversation &
 framing, it is also likely to ultimately be more impactful in reducing emissions. 3. Suggest changing the name of Climate Change

 Commission to something like 21st Century Transition Commission or Next Economy/New Economy (Transition) Commission to
 emphasise the systemic focus it must inform. The Transition to a low Carbon Economy could be thought of as a by-product of the
 transition to a 21st Century Economy…and if we want to find the best leverage points to achieve low emissions then starting at the

 economic level will be most effective.



  Supporting documents from your Submission



   Dave_Henley__July_2018__-__SUMBISSION_on_Zero_Ca..                    Uploaded on 07/19/2018 at 12:14AM

   1._Jan_Rotmans__2017__-_Roadmap_Next_Economy_for..                    Uploaded on 07/19/2018 at 12:14AM


   2._Smart-Regions-Smart-Cities.pdf                                     Uploaded on 07/19/2018 at 12:14AM

   _3._Rotterdam___the_Hague_Roadmap_Next_Economy__..                    Uploaded on 07/19/2018 at 12:14AM


   3b_-_4_key_impulses_-__5_Transistions_Pathways_-..                    Uploaded on 07/19/2018 at 12:14AM
Submission to MfE on Zero Carbon Bill


18.7.2018

David Henley -

Masters Student
Systems Thinking for Sustainability Transitions

Centre for Sustainability – University of Otago





Congratulations to all those involved in the development of the Zero Car bon Act to this point – a
significant challenging piece of work and a great foundation to build from and inform the policy
discussion going forward.



Please Note: This submission complements my submissions to the Productivity Commission
                         th
    •  Submission #90 (27 October 2017) titled-SYSTEMS THINKING & THE THIRD
       INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION (TIR) - A Narrative & Strategy for a new 21   stCentury

       Economic Transition, &
    •  Submission #212 (7thJune 2018) titled as below.


















LEARNING FROM THE SYSTEM-WIDE ECONOMIC (LOW – CARBON)

TRANSITION APPROACH OF EU COMMISSION & 3 FLAGSHIP


TRANSITION REGIONS – Rotterdam & the Hague, Luxembourg, &

Haut de France.



















                                              1
1. INTRODUCTION


In order for Aotearoa to reach Net Zero Emissions & transition effectively to a low emissions

economy in a timely manner, a deeply ambitious ‘systems based’ and ‘economy/society wide’
transition approach is required – one that optimizes the opportunities for a new and flourishing

economy for the 21  stCentury. This would also be greatly be assisted by a comp elling

narrative that can draw the various threads together – as exampled by Jeremy Rifkin’s Third

Industrial Revolution, and articulated in the plans of EU Flagship Regions .




The EU Commission launched Digital (Smart) Europe in 2017 (in conjunction with economist

Jeremy Rifkin who has been advising the EU Commission Presidency for the last 3 terms).

Among other aspects, this reprioritized and reframed EU funding streams to support specific

transitions in EU Regions & Cities across infrastructure, finance & governance – supporting
                                   st
and accelerating the move to a 21    Century economy in the EU. It is an initiative to support
the founding subsidiary principles of the EU, where regions and local players lead change that

is customised to their particular circumstance, but with aligned support from the central

institutions of the EU.


A similar plan has been launched in China (which Rifkin is also involved in) – it is part of the

current 5 year plan and called China Internet Plus.

3 EU regions are the flagships for this System wide economic transition approach.

        Rotterdam & the Hague (2016 launch) – Roadmap Next Economy

        Luxembourg (2016 launch) – Third Industrial Revolution Luxembourg


        Haut de France (2014 launch) – Rev3


THE OPPORTUNITY FOR AOTEAROA NEW ZEALAN D


While a focus on emission reduction targets and mechanisms is crucial, I think a
huge risk for NZ would be to place the majority of our focus and policy settings to

this end and not go further, and hence miss the opportunity to 'leap -frog' and
embrace cutting edge approaches like those in the EU flagship regions. This is an

opportunity to actively participate and transition our economy and society to a new,
more collaborative 21 Third Industrial Revolution paradigm, not simply a more high -

tech, digital, low-carbon version of our current economic structure.


I would recommend that the we engage with the Transition Regions & consider and

incorporate best practice from the approach in the design of the climate act,
Commission and our overall strategy for a societal and economic transition. Why not

seize the opportunity to make Aotea roa a flagship, not only in emissions reductions,
but more broadly in a new economic and societal era.




                                               2
2.     KEY RECOMMENDATIONS



 1. NZ should take the opportunity to consider and learn from the system wide       (low-

 carbon) transition approaches currently underway in the EU flagship regions -

 Rotterdam, Luxembourg & Haut de France. (see below) – supported by the EU

 Commission funding priority re alignment (Digital Europe).

        This includes learning about the process of collaborative planning and enablement in

        those economies and regions & the lessons from implementation.

        These approaches are being adopted by credible OECD economies & go beyond a

        GHG reduction framing or focus – to an economic paradigm shift / system wide framing.

        Hence, they offer a great opportunity for us to learn from and inform our transition

        philosophy & indeed take our approach to a new innovative level of ambition.




 2. Our Transition conversation & approach would benefit f rom being primarily framed

 as a societal economic transition (that is also low -carbon) – that incorporates the
 multiple societal challenges & opportunities we face in the 21    sCentury, rather than a

 primary focus on GHG reductions (although these are obviously crucial). Given this

 would - by default - be a more systemic conversation & framing, it is also likely to

 ultimately be more impactful in reducing emissions.




 3. Suggest changing the name of Climate Change Commission to something like 21           st

 Century Transition Commission or Next Economy/New Economy (Transition)

 Commission to emphasise the systemic focus it must inform. The Transition to a low
                                                                                    st
 Carbon Economy could be thought of as a by -product of the transition to a 21        Century

 Economy…and if we want to find the best leverage points to achieve low emissions

 then starting at the economic level will be most effective.



Due Diligence - Considering the high profile of these regions, and the fact these ideas are at

the heart of some approaches in the EU, It would seem essential to introduce these into the

NZ conversation and bring some attention to these in order to at the least consider their

potential for our context. This would complement our knowledge of the approaches in the UK

and other areas that have already been mo re extensively covered.

Currently there is a lack of familiarity (though awareness is growing) in civil, business &

governance community in NZ - meaning a missed opportunity to learn.




                                              3
3. BUILDING INTEREST IN THESE APPROACHES DURING 2018 &

UPCOMING VISITS FROM SPEAKERS FROM EU FLAGSHIP
REGIONS





NZ Documentary Tour of ‘The 3 Industrial Revolution- A new Story for the

Human Family’    – (Produced by Vice Impact).

During the first few months of this year the RMLA, SBN & Generation Zero sponsored a
Documentary Tour around the country (also co- hosted by Auckland Uni, Victoria Uni & Otago
Uni). This included screenings at several government ministries. Trailer – Full movie





A Coalition of Interest in Rifkin engagement/visit & initial government invite.
This tour culminated in a wide range of stakeholders being supportive and interested in a visi t

from Jeremy Rifkin to NZ to discuss these ideas, and an invitiation was extended to Rifkin’s
team by MfE & RMLA. Due to timing & cost issues this was not possible to arrange for this
year, however alternatives have been organized (see below). This ‘coalition of interest’

included SBN, SBC, AC, Auckland Conversations, LGNZ, Treasury Foresight team, Tindal
Foundation, Pure Advantage, and several councils around the country.




Upcoming   :

Representatives from the flagship transition regions of Luxembourg & Rotterdam will be
in NZ speaking at the RMLA conference this Sept ember – Reform or Transform, and also at

the CCBC / EDS conference in October.
Interview project in EU Flagship regions – an interview team (from NZ/Canada) will be

visiting the flagship regions (and other transition thought leaders in EU) during Sept 2018 to
conduct a number of interviews to learn more about this approach in implementation, and
produce easily accessible ‘video bites’ to assist the conversation here in NZ.






















                                           4
4. CLOSING REMARKS


   1. NZ should take the opportunity to consider & learn from the system wide low
      carbon transition approaches currently underway in the EU flagship regions -

      Rotterdam, Luxembourg & Haut de France. (see below) – supported by the EU
      Commission funding priority realignment (Digital Europe).  – all of which were

      developed in partnership with Jerem y Rifkin and the TIR Consulting Group.


   2. In order to maximise climate and other outcomes, our transition conversation &

      approach would benefit from being primarily framed as a system wide society
      economic transition (that is also low -carbon) – that incorporates the multiple
                                                           st
      societal challenges & opportunities we face in the 21  Century, rather than a primary
      focus on GHG reductions (although these are obviously crucial). Given this would -

      by default - be a more systemic conversation & framing, it is also likely to ultimately be
      more impactful in reducing emissions.



   3. Suggest changing the name of Climate Change Commission to something like
         st
      21 Century Transition Commission or Next Economy/New Economy
      (Transition) Commission to emphasise the systemic focus it must inform.



   4. Given the interest in this approach already expressed by various NZ stake
      holders during 2018, and the upcoming visits by representatives to the country

      - it would be powerful to have them included in the scope of consideration
      during the design of Zero Carbon Act & the Climate Commission

     o   Firstly I suggest this is a systemic approach to transition we could learn a great

         deal from (including avoiding any pitfalls) &

     o   Secondly if would seem due diligence to at least consider the approach of such
         major economies and institutions such as the EU Commission, and leading

         economies such as Rotterdam & Luxembourg. Northern France also represents an
         old rust belt region transitioning into a 21entury economic model.








Many Thanks

David Henley




Masters Research -
Systems Thinking for Sustainability Transitions

Centre for Sustainability (University of Otago, NZ)







                                               5
5. KEY REFERENCES





FLAGSHIP REGION STRATEGY OVERVIEW

A useful summary and overview is provided by Professor of Transitions & Member of the

Strategy team for Rotterdam - Roadmap Next Economy (RNE) – Prof Jan Rotmans

* Note: Jan Rotmans may be visiting NZ later in 2018



       Roadmap   Next   Economy   for   the   Metropolitan   Region   Rotterdam-­‐The   Hague:   an   
       example   of   transition   governance      

       Context   &   Urgency         March   2017   -­‐   Jan   Rotmans   Erasmus   University   Rotterdam      


       https://tem.fi/documents/1410877/4430406/Jan_Rotmans.pdf/e4ac5204 -fc88-4b44-

       b400-f640e3de20d1/Jan_Rotmans.pdf.pdf





LAUNCH OF EU COMMISSION STRATEGY

       Smart Regions Smart Cities: A Digitally Interconnected and Ecologically
       Sustainable Third Industrial Revolution Across the European Union and

       China - Jeremy Rifkin (2016)


       https://www.nrcan.gc.ca/sites/www.nrcan.gc.ca/files/energy/energy -

       resources/Smart_Regions_Smart_Cities.pdf



       https://cor.europa.eu /en/news/Pages/Investing-in-Europe-a-high-level-seminar-with-

       Jeremy-Rifkin.aspx



       https://cities-today.com/europe-to-lead-worlds-smart-cities-by-2040/






LINKS TO FLAGSHIP REGION PLANS & WEBSITES – see next page.








                                           6
5. KEY REFERENCES (cont.)


Strategic Plans – EU/China & Flagship regions

Please find below links to the Strategic Plans for transition that flagship regions in the EU.have

developed in conjuction with the TIR Consulting Group
These are serving a flagship and beacon examples of the approach and include, Northern France,

Rotterdam & the Hague, & Luxembourg. These are more intensive examples of the general policy
previously established by Rifkin and others in the EU and China.



      EU & CHINA LEVEL:


      EU (Essay) – Rifkin on Digital Europe & Rifkin on a Smart Green TIR for Europe 2015 -

      2020

      EU (Video) - Intro to Digital Europe (TIR Europe) – 3.30 mins
      China (Article) - China Embraces TIR





      EU FLAGSHIP REGION LEVEL:                  STRATEGIC PLANS



      ROTTERDAM & THE HAGUE (Metropolitan region of…) - 2016

      Website:       https://mrdh.nl/rne-naslag

                     https://roadmapnexteconomy.com/
      Video:         https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hsqpHl_5ZzY

      Plan: Road Map Next Economy (60 pages) -
      ATTACHED

      Full Plan: Road Map Next Economy - TIR (Full) (530 pages)



       LUXEMBOURG – 2016

       Website: http://www.troisiemerevolu tionindustrielle.lu/Luxembourg
       Portal: Homepage
       Full Plan: Luxembourg Final Report - TIR




      NORTHERN FRANCE – Haut de France – 2013

      Website: https://rev3.fr/
      Plan:  Master plan Rev3

      Article: How the Third Industrial Revolution Can Transform France - Regional President &
      President of the Chamber of Commerce












                                            7
BACKGROUND (from submission Oct 2017 to Productivity

Commission):



SYSTEMS THINKING & THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION (TIR)
                                                       st
      A Narrative & Strategy for a new 21 Century Economic Transition



 It is great to see the excellent work of the Commission in the area of low -carbon transitions.


 My name is Dave Henley - a Masters Students with the Centre for Sustainability at the University
 of Otago. My research is focused on using Systems Thinking and Systems Dynamics to explore

 the potential for low-carbon economic transitions to the new 21st Century economy.



 A focus of my research has included looking at the work of Jeremy Rifkin and the economy -wide
 sustainable low-carbon strategic plans (with Productivity as a central focus) which have been

 launched in several flagship regions of Europe over the last 2 years. These sit within the
 context of an EU wide long term 21 stCentury economic vision called Smart Europe, that was

 launched by the EU Commission and Rifkin in early 2017.


 The approach is very comprehensive and collaborative with participation from all sectors of
 society. It is a serious attempt at an economic paradigm shift – A Third Industrial Revolution –
 addressing multiple elements, and is having big impact in the EU (Smart Europe) and China (Internet
                                                                                             st
 Plus Policy) in particular. It acknowledges that the likely underpinning infrastructure of the 21
 Century economy, will fundamentally favour a more collaborative, lateral and distributed society,

 governance and business models. This is emergent - even without a climate crisis and e missions
 challenge, the way we organize and interact within society is set to radically change because of this
 underlying systemic shift. We must harness and understand this, and place it at the centre of our

 response, rather than focusing on emission redu ctions in a less systemic way.


 I think New Zealand could also seize the opportunity to look at this process in some depth – a
 whole system economic and societal transition vision (rather than a less ambitious emissions
 reduction focus).


 In regards to productivity, a third crucial component is highlighted in this analysis (alongside capital

 & labour) – i.e. aggregate efficiency. Essentially it is shown that the current industrial infrastructure
 has reached its maximum potential and a fundamental shift in t he underpinning infrastructure of

 society (and accompanying evolution in governance, business models, and soclal changes) is
 required in order to realize the potential aggregate efficiency gains (and hence productivity gains) of
 a Third Industrial Revoluti on. This is explained more fully below and in the attached reports.


 In terms of implementation, beyond the perspectives and ideas , what really grabbed my attention

 about this approach, is the deep collaborative, strategic economy wide process and
 engagement that it has lead to - as exampled by the strategic planning process undertaken in the 3
 Flagship EU regions. These included active participation from multiple stake holders, working in

 conjunction with the TIR consulting group to generate the vision, pl ans, engagement and by -in to
 begin implementing a system level change to the societies in question. This includes a shift to a Third

 Industrial Revolution infrastructure, governance systems etc., and as a result, accompanying
 emissions reductions.


 This moves the conversation and policy programme significantly beyond an 'emission reduction'



                                                   8
focus to a much broader system shift - a fundamentally new underpinning infrastructure platform and

accompanying governance and economic shifts . This is really a question of how to transition to a
21st Century economy, which happens to be low -emission, rather than how to transition our current

economy to a low emission version of itself with a ‘little bit of digitial tech’.



As a systems thinker myself (my current resea rch using System Dynamics) this seems far closer

to where we need to be. It also highlights another key strength that this approach offers – a strong
compelling narrative.

       We need a new economic vision for this planet... and it better be compelling.

       We need a game plan to deploy that vision...and it better be deliverable
       ...and fast. This is a paradigm shift. - Jeremy Rifkin 2016


My research identifies three important higher -level factors that play a crucial role in transformation
& transitions – which I have called the 21 Century Toolkit/Lenses –


       1.       Embracing & understanding a ‘ Systems Thinking Perspective’,


       2.      Stretching the Possible – unleashing Story, Vision & imagination –

                        i.e The importance of Envisioning the Future (in a way that is free of
                        the shackles of perceived constraints of what is ‘practically possible’)
                           Please see attached References for Systems Thinking & Envisioning

                                      a) Systems Thinking - A Primer,
                                      b) Places to Intervene in a System, &

                                      c) Envisioning a Sustainable Future


       3.      Collective Narrative Clarit y (that has strong foundations in the previous two
               elements).



The Third Industrial Revolution Narrative & Strategic Plans – deliver in all three areas. The
power of a clear narrative, grounded in pragmatism and reality, but not afraid to stretch beyond

(envision) what we currently understand, and capable of bringing a sense of clarity and coherence to
the wide array of disruptive change we face, looking to deeper underlying systems level explanations
(Systems Thinking), is crucial.

This provides a rallying point around which we can collectively gather, with enhanced clarity,

alignment, a deeper shared understanding of what opportunity we face and the system level factors
that underpin our society, allowing us to tackle this transition in a serious and exci ting manner.




IN SUMMARY – THE OPPORTUNITY FOR AOTEAROA NEW ZEALAND


While a focus on emission reduction targets and mechanisms is crucial, I think a huge risk

for NZ would be to place the majority of our focus and policy settings to this end and not go
further, and hence miss the opportunity to 'leap -frog' and embrace cutting edge approaches
like those in the EU flagship regions. This is an opportunity to actively participate and

transition our economy and society to a new, more collaborative Third Indust rial Revolution
paradigm, not simply a more high -tech, digital, low-carbon version of our current economic

structure.


I would recommend that we engage with Jeremy Rifkin's TIR Team, and invite him to New
Zealand to engage with our journey here - why not seize the opportunity to make Aotearoa

New Zealand a flagship, not only in emissions reductions, but more broadly in a new



                                                   9
 economic and societal era. I have been in conversation with his team in Washington D.C. & there

 is interest in this potential. Also the Road Map Next Economy (RNE) team from the Flagship region
 of Rotterdam & the Hague are open to sharing their experiences here in New Zealand.


 I have attached charts, and the summary reports from the 3rd Industrial Revolution Strategic Plans

 of Rotterdam & the Hague and Luxembourg (2016), which illustrate the broad structure to their
 approach, i.e. an economic paradigm shift, rather than just a strategy for emission reductions.


 The Preface / Intro to the Luxembourg report includes a good summary of the underpinning ideas
 around productivity and aggregate efficiency.


 For a good overview and introduction to the scope and implementation of this TIR narrative &

 approach I recommend viewing one of the recent presentations by Jeremy Rifkin to the EU Bank
 (2017) or 7th European Summit of Regions and Cities      (2016).


 In addition, a Documentary (preview) of this general presentation was premiered at the New York

 Trifecta Film Festival earlier in this year (similar in style to Al Gore’s Inconvenient Truth & Sequel in
 format). It has not yet been distributed anywhere in the world as yet, but I have been in contact with

 the producers and we are able to hold screenings for key change makers and leadership if there is
 interest.


 Please do not hesitate to get in touch if there is anything I can do to assist the commission with
 its enquiry, and I would be more than happy to offer whatever clarification or further information

 could be of assistance.


 Many thanks
 Dave Henley


Please find ..
        A) Background Information (in document below)

                 (1) An introduction (bio) to Jeremy Rifkin,

                 (2) Third Industrial Revolution ( TIR) – on the ground in action
                 (3) Outline of TIR

                 (4) Presentations (by Rifkin), Articles and books on TIR

                 (5) Links to TIR Strategic plans – EU, China and EU Flagship regions

        B) Hyperlinks (in text)

        C) Attached
                 Strategic Plans from Flagship regions of...
                     Rotterdam and the Hague & Luxembourg,

                      & several charts of strategic approach from those reports.


                 Systems Thinking References (from 21st Century Toolkit/Lenses).
                         a. Systems Thinking - A Primer (Meadows 2008)

                         b. Places to Intervene in a S ystem (Meadows 1999)
                         c. Envisioning a Sustainable Future (Meadows 1999)













                                                   10
THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION (TIR) - Jeremy Rifkin

A NARRATIVE & STATEGIC FRAMEWORK - for a New 21st

Century Economic Transition





1. Bio - Jeremy Rifkin

Jeremy Rifkin, an economist & societal thinker based in Washington D.C., is an adviser to the EU

leadership, the People’s Republic of China, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel on the Third
Industrial Revolution (TIR). He is a principal architect of the EU’s long -term TIR economic vision
called Smart Europe (launched in 2017) & is advising the European Commission on the deployment

of the plan in regions across the continent. Rifkin is also a principal architect of China’s TIR vision and
an adviser to government agencies on the depl oyment of the China Internet Plus transformation
underway in the 13th Five -Year Plan.


       We need a new economic vision for this planet... and it better be compelling.
       We need a game plan to deploy that vision…and it better be deliverable

       ...and fast. This is a paradigm sh- Jeremy Rifkin 2016

Rifkin is president of the TIR Consulting Group, which works with regions across Europe to

conceptualize, build out, and scale TIR infrastructure & strategic plans; and also lectures at
the Wharton School’s Executive Education Program.






2. On the ground in action -            see 5. for materials & plans

TIR roadmap economic plans are already on the ground having impact in the EU & China,
and the collaborative, cross -sector process itself to craft and action these strategic plans is

an important part of the impact . Along with Germany, three flagship EU regions have recently
customised their own versions & launched strategic, society/economy -wide TIR plans; Haut-de-

France (2013), Rotterdam and the Hague (2016) & the country of Luxembourg (2016),
while Catalonia has just launched its process. All of the plans were developed using collaborative
engagement with all sectors of society, business, civil society etc. involved.


How about Aotearoa or Auckland next?




















                                              11
3. Outline


What is the 3rd Industrial Revolution (TIR) & dawning Collaborative Era?

-   an Explanation and a Roadmap




The Third Industrial Revolution (TIR) narrative and framework – is both an explanation and

road map. It offers a coherent, compelling explanation that brings clarity to the economic
moment we find ourselves in by identifying the key challenges we face at a systems level. It then

provides a comprehensive roadmap plan for the economic transition we must make.


The premise of the TIR is that we are at the dawn of a new economic paradigm - both a

technological revolution & a shift of consciousness - at the same time as facing daunting
economic and environmental challenges.



According to Rifkin’s analysis, economic eras shift when three defining technologies emerge and
converge, to create a new underpinning infrastructure, i.e. a revolution in communications, energy

and logistics – how we manage, power and move economic activity. Alongside the physical
infrastructure shift, this is accompanied by a shift in our governance, bu siness, financial, legal &

social systems and indeed consciousness. These accompanying shifts both emerge from and
actively enable the emergence of a new economic era, meaning they require our attention and active
engagement alongside the technological as pects of a new era, especially if we want or need the

transition to move quickly, and deliver certain outcomes like a low-emissions economy.


The two previous economic eras that saw shifts in these 3 key areas can be distinguished as
       -    1 Industrial revolution
                   th
                19 Century – Steam powered printing & Telegraph, Coal, and the locomotive
       -    2ndIndustrial revolution
                20 Century – Telephone, Radio, Oil, Internatl Combustion Engine


There was of course overlap between these eras and a transition from one to the nex t.

A key outcome in each shift of economic era that Rifkin Identifies (but is often ignored by main stream
economics) is the great improvements they allowed to Aggregate Efficiency – a measure of the

useful work (energy) embedded to work lost in each step of conversion on a value chain. Only 12.5%
of economic growth over the 20   thCentury can be explained by improvements in productivity

generated by labour & capital. However a great deal of the remainder is a result of improvements in
Aggregate Efficiency en abled by the new infrastructure. So if we are concerned about improving

productivity, then we need to focus a great deal more on aggregate efficiency as a third and
dominant component.


Today, the beginning of the 3    rdindustrial Revolution sees the emergence and convergence of 3
new key technology platforms - the Communications Internet, a Distributed Renewable Energy

Internet & Automated low-carbon Logistics Internet together form an Internet of Things, which will
radically alter the way we organise economic activity in society. This new underpinning infrastructure

platform, in contrast to the 20tCentury Infrastructure, favours distributed, lateral & collaborative
activity and has the potential to significantly improve efficiency, productivity, and lowerour ecological

footprint. However to truly optimise this - we must enable it in the right way, evolving our business
models, making good decisions and setting up good supportive governance structures, as we enter

this new era, which Rifkin terms as a Biosphere Civilisation.




                                                    12
With a focus on the productivity potential of underpinning infrastructure, the emerging

sharing economy, and new business & governance models required, this is a comprehensive,
transformational economy wide approach. It provides a rallying point at scale - around which the

many initiatives and ideas already underway, can be taken to the next level to shift this transition into
high gear. With a more coherent and shared understanding of this bigger emerging reality, decisions
in business and governance at all levels can start to realign more effectively, positioning regions at

the cutting edge of this shift, as Flagships and Pioneers.






4. Presentations, Articles & Books




       1.Presentations by Jeremy Rifkin to EU

         - 7th European Summit of Regions and Cities    (2016)

         - EU Bank (2017)



       2. Upcoming Documentary – from Vice Impact Films (premiered @ Trifecta film

       festival New York 2017)

       The Third Industrial Revolution – A new story for the human family (preview)

               NOTE: This has not yet been distributed anywhere in the world as yet, but I have been

               in contact with the producers & we are able to hold screenings here in NZ for key
               change makers and leadership if there is interest.




       3. The Empathetic Civilisation - 10min – comment from Rifkin on the nature of
       humanity (based on his Book of the same name) (gives good context)




       4.If you prefer to read

       Article

               a.      A key player in China and the EU's 'third industrialrevolution' describes the
               economy of tomorrow b. Welcome to the Third Industrial Revolution - Article

               Serieson Huffington post

       Books - 2 most recent

               The Third Industrial Revolution : How Lateral Power is Transforming Energy, the
               Economy and the World (2011)

               & Zero Marginal Cost Society : The Internet of Things, the Collaborative Commons,
               and the Eclipse of Capitalism (2014)














                                                 13
5. Strategic Plans – EU/China & Flagship regions

Please find below links to 4 Strategic Plans that the TIR Consulting Group has facilitated over the last

few years (several in 2016) with major regions in the EU.
These are serving a flagship and beacon examples of the approach and include, Catalonia (just

beginning the process), Northern France, Rotterdam & the Hague, & Luxembourg. Thare more
intensive examples of the general policy previously established by Rifkin and others in the EU
and China.



      EU & CHINA LEVEL:



      EU (Essay) – Rifkin on Digital Europe & Rifkin on a Smart Green TIR for Europe 2015 -
      2020

      EU (Video) - Intro to Digital Europe (TIR Europe) – 3.30 mins
      China (Article) - China Embraces TIR






      EU FLAGSHIP REGION LEVEL:                   STRATEGIC PLANS



      ROTTERDAM & THE HAGUE (Metropolitan region of…) - 2016

      Website: Roadmap Next Economy
      Video: Intro to Road MapNext Economy

      (10mins) Plan: Road Map Next Economy (60
      pages) - ATTACHED
      Full Plan: Road Map Next Economy - TIR (Full) (530 pages)




       LUXEMBOURG – 2016
       Website: Third Industrial Revolution

       Luxembourg Portal: Homepage
       Full Plan: Luxembourg Final Report - TIR




      NORTHERN FRANCE – Haut de France – 2013

      Plan:   Master plan Rev3
      Article: How the Third Industrial Revolution Can Transform France - Regional President &
      President of the Chamber of Commerce




      CATALONIA - 2016

      Website: Rifkin encourages Catalonia to lead the - Links to Presentation plus Q&A











                                            14
