Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 21/06/2018 06:51 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

    target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
    The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
    target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

    Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
    achieve them.
    An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
    Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Deborah


Last Name
Moss

Email



Street address



Suburb


City



Country



Post code


Is there anything you'd like to add?
We are witnessing the impact of climate change all around us - from dramatic weather patterns causing havoc

through to documented devastating effects to native species. I strongly support a Zero Carbon Act to help put our
nation on the right trajectory to reduce emissions. We need to act urgently.


Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public

posting
No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No


If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No

Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?

No


Submitted on Thu 21 Jun 2018
