Subject: FW: Climate Change or Warming commission

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz


Date: 28/06/2018 11:23 AM

From: Climate Consultation
Sent: Thursday, 28 June 2018 8:14 AM
To: ZCB Submissions <ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz>

Subject: FW: Climate Change or Warming commission
From: EdwardMills <
Sent: Wednesday, 27 June 2018 11:05 AM

To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz  >; NLO@parliament.govt.nz
Subject: Climate Change or Warming commission

There is no reason to establish any Climate Change or Warming commission!!

So why do James Shaw, Jacinda Ardern and Winston Peters want to impose ideological policies onto New Zealand that have

failed overseas? Why would they put our future at risk for a theory –

for that's all man-made global warming is? You only have to go back 20 years and compare what was forecast by James
Hanson, Gore and co and compare it with what has actually happened .

or go back even further to the 1970's when we were all going to freeze to death according to the Green's .


To reiterate, there remains no real-life evidence that dangerous man-made global warming exists. The weather events that
James Shaw likes to highlight as being proof of runaway climate change are not outside the bounds of natural variability.


During the Medieval Warm Period, the earth was far warmer than it is today, and during the Little Ice Age, far cooler. Carbon
dioxide levels have been far higher than now, and far lower. Species continue to evolve as they always have, with some dying
out and others adapting and flourishing. Storms have been fiercer and more frequent than the present, as have floods and
every other adverse weather event. The climate is chaotic, but no more, nor less, than it’s ever been.


Furthermore, while carbon is classed as “pollution” by some, it remains essential for life on earth. Although the actual level of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is miniscule, it plays an essential role in the food chain. All plants and animals breathe in
oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide, but through photosynthesis in the presence of green chlorophyll and water, plants

are able to capture the sun’s energy and carbon dioxide and store them as food, releasing oxygen in the process.

Yet Green socialists, intent on destroying economic growth and prosperity, have convinced politicians around the world that
carbon dioxide is their enemy.


I am completely opposed to any commission , it is a waste of tax payers dollars set up to study a none existing problem .

Edward M MIlls
