Subject: FW: Climate change


Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 28/06/2018 11:23 AM


From: Climate Consultation

Sent: Thursday, 28 June 2018 8:13 AM
To: ZCB Submissions <ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: FW: Climate change

From:

Sent: Wednesday, 27 June 2018 1:12 PM
To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz       >
Subject: Climate change

For the attention of the climate change committee.
I oppose the introduction of the current bill before parliament on the grounds that the bill is basically stupid and irresponsible, the implications to the New
Zealand economy have not been thought through.
If this bill is passed, this will without doubt result damage to our economy.
The bill has not fully considered the damage to New Zealand when our own oil and natural gas reserves are depleted as the current wells dry up.
The next consideration has to be, how is New Zealand going to replace the lost energy that we currently enjoy, when existing wells are not producing.

Future requirements for New Zealand, will have to be replenished by importing coal, because the Greens have effectively closed down all of our own coal
mines.
New Zealand will then be forced to import “dirty grade” coal from places like Indonesia. Result:- dumb, stupid and irresponsible .
At no time during the election campaign did Labour or the Greens outline the full details of the cost of their Carbon Zero policy.
Even now, when the policy implications are being disclosed and the costs are becoming clear, they are still down-playing the cost, claiming benefits when
there are any, only increased costs to our economy.

No party has the right to introduce policies which will destroy New Zealand’s economic future, without clearly spelling out their intentions during an
election campaign.
Since Labour and the Greens did not do that, their Zero Carbon Bill should be rejected in the strongest possible way.
Ignoring the cost of replacing our energy requirements, this Zero Carbon Bill will create a vast bureaucracy.
These additional costs will be;- a new committee Climate Change Commission, ‘emissions budgets’, climate change introduction plans, and impossible
emissions targets.

The Bill presents three options for emissions targets for 2050. The first would regulate only carbon dioxide, the second carbon dioxide and methane, and
the third carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and any other gases they can find.
The second and third options are designed to target farmers, This is great, New Zealand is a primary producer, we grow things really well, grass, trees
etc, environmental extremists have already stated that they want stock numbers reduced.
These objectives are again stupid, how do the Greens plant to replace the lost income generated by farms?
One other criteria that the Greens can’t quite grasp, is the impact on the pollution to the world by this bill, it will be so infinitesimal, when compared to the
pollution caused by India, China, USA.

However New Zealand can stand up and say, we will save the world, unfortunately we will in the process destroy the economy of New Zealand
On the basis of the above fundamental facts, I oppose this bill and ask that the committee reject it outright, before irreparable damage is done to the
New Zealand economy.
Peter D Turner
