Subject: FW: Emission control law

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz


Date: 04/07/2018 10:38 AM














From: Tony Blomfield
Sent: Wednesday, 4 July 2018 9:48 AM
To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz   >
Subject: Emission control law

I was advised this email is where I can make my concerns known.
Whilst I am an advocate for anything that keeps our planet clean, I also have to consider the cost, personal stress, and inconvenience.
I am passionate about our country, and maintaining it in a clean state for the future and now.
However: I am extremely concerned about this extreme bill.
     CO2/Motor vehicles. Whilst I agree in concept with the idea of reducing emissions, I do not see any practical suggestions. Electric

     cars just move the pollution from one place to anther and greatly increase the cost of motor vehicles. Id like to offer the
     suggestion that the most immediate, and effective change you can make is to reduce the number of vehicles on the road. I
     work mostly from home. I use my care about once week to go to the office for a meeting and to attend to essentials. Why
     doesn’t society embrace work from home ? I guess the answer is that it’s a social issue. People are trained to expect to go to
     an office, and they have become socially adjusted to this. I suggest strongly that changing the perception of society to a Work
     from home concept would be the greatest change you can make. There are other ways to reduce number of cars on the road.
     For example. Why does ever mom have to deliver and pick up the Kids to school ? We as a society are obsessed with the
     Central services model. WE should make the necessary adjustments to a distributed model.


     Inconvenience and cost. The Zero Carbon Bill will create a vast bureaucracy: A Climate Change Commission, ‘emissions
     budgets’, climate change adaptation plans, and emissions targets. Who pays ? The answer is you, me and all the other
     workers. Why does NZ have to do this at all ? What will we achieve ? In the big picture we could only make a .00001%
     change. Who cares ? DO you think that China and the rest of Asia, the USA, India, Europe will pat us on the back and
     give us concessions for this ? NZ is just a tiny windswept island in the southern ocean. WE will have zero influence, and

     close to zero impact.

     Cost to our economy. This idea clearly targets Farmers. Does anyone stop to think about the economic consequences ?
     Farming is number one for NZ and that is not likely to change in the foreseeable future. IN industry and Technology is
     lost for ever. The huge cost of labor and compliance in NZ has made us totally incapable of competing in anything but a
     few niche markets.

     Animals. While its true all animals produce methane (Including us) the plain fact is that we need food, and Dairy, sheep

     are very effective at this. IN reality the carbon footprint of animals is zero. Why are we targeting them >? Is this all
     driven by a vegan minority ?

     Costs. Here I just quote Muriel Neuman’s words, because I cannot think of a better way to express it. NZ is already
     grossly over governed. Over the last 20 year or so radical changes driven by the eastern European block have invaded
     our life’s. The Emissions Trading Scheme, James Shaw’s proposed Zero Carbon Bill will create a costly nightmare of red

     tape and bureaucracy that will waste time and money, drag down the economy, and destroy businesses and jobs –
     without having any impact at all on the climate. The Zero Carbon Bill should be suspended - indefinitely! The cost of
     compliance, PC, Excessive regulation, and Grossly excessive taxes has ruined our life.

In conclusion, I feel that this bill is just paying lip service to the problem, and is being driven by a few extremists with
impractical concepts.

The problem of pollution in general is the problem of Europe, Asia, India, Eastern Europe, the Stan countries. Why are we
paying a fortune in New Zealand to promote an insane and ineffective idea that just puts money in the pockets of wealthy
people?

This entire idea is wrong, and unfair on us - the average working class. This Carbon tax and Emission trading concept should
be put in the rubbish can where it belongs. If you want to have an impact and bring about change, then focus on doable cost
free solutions such as promoting work from home.
Tony Blomfield

Sent from Mail for Windows 10
