Subject: Zero Carbon

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 01:47 PM

Kia ora

I attended the meeting held at Hamilton and I did not submit the paper at the time.
My views are;
1.Under the Zero Carbon Bill a Climate Change Commission will be set up:

     Advise Government on policy decisions

     Monitor progress towards targets

The commission to be set up to continue whoever is in the government and be independent of the government.
2. NZ needs a clear plan on how we are going to both assess and adapt to the risks of climate change to our
people, our country and our economy.

     Strongly agree ( and this plan to be independent of treaties with other countries)


3. What is the best 2050 climate change target for NZ?

     Net Zero Emissions

In addition I would submit that the some of the pamphlet brushes over lightly “targeted support” to help with the
goal of zero carbon.

Care is required that those on low wages (which appears to be the majority of those living in NZ) or fixed income do
not pay the highest percentage of their money to achieve this goal. It will increase the isolation of many people
with the increase of costs.
Everyday costs in NZ are expensive. One remark at the meeting from a regional councillor of the Waikato Regional
Council who informed the meeting about the impact of climate change on the region. My regional rates have

increased by 14% for this year and this impacts on our standard of living . The only reduction available to us is to
lower the grocery bill.
In addition under zero carbon I presume that wood fire burners would be scrapped. Alas! We grow trees that
coppice and use these for our low emission fire and coal range which saves us money in heating the water, drying
washing and cooking. I hope this is not prevented if it is offset by the trees that we grow on our extremely small

property.
Electric cars ( or whatever is later invented), solar panels, double or triple glazing are expensive and beyond the
range of many including ourselves. The convenience of public transport is confined to the main cities of NZ and can
be expensive. We live semi rurally and have reduced our travel due to the rise in petrol.
We want the best for our country and our whanau. I hope the planting of trees does not result in endless pine

forests but a programme of native, exotic and pine trees are planted. In addition that these pine trees are used to
reduce the cost of building in innovative ways and with scientific research they do not result in being treated to
enable them to be used for house building.
Good luck!

Suzanne Barker
