Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 03:36 PM

Dear Minister, I wholeheartedly support the passing of legally binding climate law. We need more world leading and

progressive legislation, like we used to have in the days of our parents, grand-parents, and great-grand-parents,
but not so much in modern times. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and
international frameworks by including ALL gases and ALL sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of
limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We are Kiwis, so we should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in

devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable, and it's not
ambitious enough for the needs of future generations. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5
degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I
100% support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support ALL
greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling
climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from
our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. Solutions to this problem will be found, but sadly only if we're
forced to find them. So let's do this. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to
devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory

group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition,
which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be
binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the
‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not
through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. While consensus

across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law.
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law,
when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. Like our universal suffrage law, like our the
social security laws (ish), like our anti-nuclear law, like the ground-breaking and brave laws we used to agree. The

world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the
challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and
pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Don Pointon
