Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 04:22 PM

Dear Minister, I am a scientist with over 50 years of experience and research into land use sustainability issues. I

have published about 100 papers including on forestry, bioenergy and soils. I support the passing of legally binding
climate law that will make our country plays it part in fighting climate change. The law must be fair, ambitious and
consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The
legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees

warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is
not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the
century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with
the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I see adding to our forest estate as a short term option to help
meet targets while at reducing erosion and increasing biodiversity. This can be both by planting introduced trees

as well as natives. The adoption of a forestry policy would help too. I support all greenhouse gases being included
in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and
scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the
agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding

budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that
governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which
must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding,
policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’
principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and particularly avoid

the purchase of overseas carbon credits. Forests are a carbon sink that can help in the short term so in the longer
term we need to reduce our emissions. Reducing soil loss (erosion) is also important to reduce our losses of
carbon. While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the
cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have

broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world
needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the
challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and
pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Donald Mead
