Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 04:22 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. I would like to see much greater forestry

especially in Canterbury with a lean to the Building industry, but also smaller plants with high carbon absorption
rates. Not all Carbon consumers are big plants. I also strongly feel any increased forestry should be at least 1/3
native plants even if these have lower carbon absorption in the short term. What is the carbon absorption of
wetlands? We need to protect our smaller plants in wet and alpine environments too. Can we boost our native

plants carbon asorption? The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international
frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to
1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island
states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. We must look after our Pacific neighbours. To give
us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be

rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts
occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with
international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane
reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New
Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. We must make

major changes within our agricultural sector and they need to be starting to roll before the next election. There
needs to be support for the agricultural sector to make those changes. Maybe a limited period bribe to switch to
low carbon-type agriculture start ups. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be
to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory
group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition,

which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be
binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the
‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not
through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus

across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law.
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law,
when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational
change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only
way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our

precious earth and future generations. Very bold. Yours sincerely, Clarissa Visch
