Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 06:10 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding
budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that
governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which
must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding,

policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’
principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the
purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political
parties is good, the recognition of the urgency around climate change is variable and tends to split along political
lines.. we need to act and act now. The challenge will be to create law which will not be repealed by subsequent

governments. For this reason I support law change which is primarily encouraging of behaviour change, rather
than punitive- for example exemption from road user charges until electric vehicles make up a certain proportion of
the fleet. Other examples may include incentives for farming practices which increase the total CO2 captured in
land or decrease oxides of nitrogen emissions. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to
avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is

with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. Yours sincerely, Matthew Bailey
