Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 07:04 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law for the benefit of all New Zealanders, even those

who mistakenly oppose it at this time. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and
international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. Exemptions only favour vested self-interests, most
of which being those with big money and political influence. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting
warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on

Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of
achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse
gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I
support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling

climate change. It is politically, socially and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any
gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. We all must contribute. I support the
establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission
should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate
budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by

government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the
Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets
must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or
an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. This would only lead to the further destruction of native forest, in
favour of exotic tree species. While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should

not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It
would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is
strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is
the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand

must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Peter
Benfell
