Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 04/07/2018 07:30 PM

Dear Minister, Climate change is the greatest threat to global stability both politically and environmentally. Climate

change will increase the mass movement of people as refugees from flooding and drought. This will lead to political
instability and conflict. The cost of flooding and storm damage due to climate change will increase and will lead to
economic instability and conflict. First world countries will not be able to protect their citizens from the effects of
damage from more powerful storms and flooding from sea level rise. Coastal areas currently home to cities

including influential citizens will be increasingly affected and possibly uninhabitable. Climate change will lead to
extinction of species valuable to us and loss of agricultural and forestry land we need for economic security. We
also have a moral and ethical obligation to protect our country and world as a place that continues to support our
standard of living and political stability. I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair,
ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all

sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2
degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions.
That is not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of
the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040
with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law,

consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear
that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable
for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I
support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate
Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.

Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered
by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from
the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s
targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon

credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-
party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to
address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid
catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with

big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. Yours sincerely, Melissa Potter
