Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 05/07/2018 08:06 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. I'd love to see Aotearoa leading the world in this

important mahi. We are a proud nation of innovators and problem solvers - we can do this! In my work
(transformaional change consultant) I am fully aware of how challenging large scale change is, however, this is one
we know must be made. Just as Synlait is demonstrating leadership with its commendable targets around
sustainability in the dairy industry, we have a responsibility to lead the change in this critical area. I am excited by

the fresh thinking this Government is already embedding into our political culture. The law must be fair, ambitious
and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The
legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees
warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is
not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the

century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with
the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law,
consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear
that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable
for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I

support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate
Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.
Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered
by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from
the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s

targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon
credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-
party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to

address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid
catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with
big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. Let's make our beautiful country a world leader! Yours sincerely, Leigh Kennedy
