Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 05/07/2018 10:42 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2030 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. This is an ambitious target but is necessary from both a scientific and political point of view.
Globally we cannot afford to not achieve a net zero carbon waste civilisation. To do so risks our global civilisation.
The IPCC process is inherently a conservative one which tends to underestimate the true impacts of climate
change. By setting an ambitious target we not only show global leadership but also allow some leeway for both

IPPC underestimation of the impacts and the likely failure of some countries to take the necessary action on the
necessary time scale. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a

Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Carbon budgets should be
legally binding ambitious targets, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed time
frames. Due to the procrastination of politicians since the 1960s and 70s we are nearly out of time to take the
necessary action to avoid catastrophic climate change. As such carbon budgets set by the Climate Commission

have to be binding on governments. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved
by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance
on forests as carbon sinks, especially as one of the consequences of climate change is an increase in the frequency
of forest fires as has been seen already in Australia and California. Whilst consensus across political parties is

good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is one of
the greatest challenges facing humanity, and probably the only one we have begun to think about taking the
necessary action to avoid disaster. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently
needed to address the problem is strong law and strong action now. The world needs pathways to transformational
change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only

way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our
precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Phil Andrews
