Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 05/07/2018 11:18 AM

Dear Minister, This may look like a stock form letter. It is. But I have gone through it in detail and made my own

additions. Please read it. I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and
consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The
legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees
warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is

not acceptable. 1.5 degrees of warming has been described as "ambitious" or "impossible." Both may be true, but
unless our target is the most stringent we would be in the position of simply shrugging our shoulders and wiping
off the living place and livelihoods of a large number of our near neighbours. To give us the best possibility of
achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse
gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I

support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling
climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from
our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. It is simply not good enough to say that it is too hard, or too
expensive or too controversial to include agriculture. We do not have the luxury of time in our effort to stave off

massive environmental disaster to our common home. Money needs to be invested - large amounts of it - in
ensuring that we can feed our people and make our contributions to feeding the world while at the same time
reducing our carbon output. Oliver Wendell Holmes is reputed to have said "I like paying taxes. It buys me
civilisation." I have long agreed with that. But now it does more - it buys us a future on planet earth. I support the
establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission

should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate
budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by
government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the
Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets

must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or
an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party
agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to
address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid

catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with
big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. Yours sincerely, Stephen Pattemore
