Subject: FW: Submission Regarding Z.C.B. from William Partridge B.Sc.London.


Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz


Date: 06/07/2018 02:12 PM

From: Climate Consultation
Sent: Thursday, 5 July 2018 3:01 PM

To: ZCB Submissions <ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: FW: Submission Regarding Z.C.B. from William Partridge B.Sc.London.

FYI, see below.





From: William Partridge <                       >
Sent: Thursday, 5 July 2018 1:06 AM
To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: Submission Regarding Z.C.B. from William Partridge B.Sc.London.


i wish to make a submission on the Government's impending plans to take us ''Towards Zero Carbon''
PLEASE DO NOT TAKE US INTO THE PARIS AGREEMENT.or pursue ''ZERO CARBON POLICY''
I give my reasons for this plea.

I am a scientist from London University's Wye College. Now assimilated into Imperial College. I have a degree in
agricultural science ,gained when science was science and politics,just that.
On Friday 21 June i attended the ''Climate Change roadshow''in Palmerston North ,put on by Dairy N.Z..I left
depressed by what i had witnessed.Most if not all the participants exhibited a degree of ''groupthink''that even
surprised me.[i have read about it. Irving L.Janis ''Group think'']

Milena Scott,the climate science speaker,was ignorant of where modern climate science has gone.She showed a
graph of CO2 and Temperatures.She did not know,or put across the fact that CO2 in the past rose because of
warming [a lag of about 600 to 800 years] It Does not and did not cause the warming as was the inference in Scott's
delivery.This clinging to'' failed, old science'' seems to be pervasive amongst our Climate science advisers.That

advise us,our media and politicians .Recently i phoned Prof.David Frame Of Victoria University's climate science
Dept.[Head of ,i believe]
I explained that an alumni from my old University Astrophysicist Prof.Piers Corbyn Said '''There is no data from
thousands and millions of years to show that extra CO2 causes warming ,or for that matter cooling.'''.PLEASE note

that quote is very important to my submission.It would appear to be factual Prof.Frame made a disparaging remark
about Piers and dismissed his statement as false.I said there is no peer reviewed work to contradict it.Frame said
there was.I asked him to find it and send it to me .Prof. Frame's response was to put the phone down on me.
Piers Corbyn explains what does cause climate to change.It is The Sun.Solar wind strength,sun spot

activity.charged particles from the sun.This in turn governs the strength of our magnetosphere,to guide our jet
streams and deflect Galactic cosmic ray influx [ charged particles and gamma rays from outer space ] We see sun
spot activity at the lowest levels for over 100 years G.C.R.I. is increasing We see the extra dense white cloud that
causes extreme precipitation events and also reflects suns heat back out to space before it can warm ocean or land
.Thus we cool.The jet streams now no longer controlled by the very weak magnetosphere flail in meridional

patterns across the latitudes bringing snow and cold to low latitudes and unusual warm to some high latitudes .
I will add that Piers Corbyn Uses the sun to make long and short term forecasts.The U.K. Metservice has spent 100
million Pounds Sterling.on super computers. I quote Piers.''They get it WRONG I get it right''' and he does.
We now cool as predicted and when predicted.The little ice age ''Eddy Minimum'' was forecast to start in

2016.Between Feb.2016 and Feb 2018 N.A.S.A. records a ''surface temp drop of 0.56 degrees centigrade.Yet only
one publication published this fact ''Writing in Real Clear Markets'' by Aaron Brown 14 April 2018 .The U.A.H.
Satellite data shows a 0.6 degree fall since Feb.2016 .The ocean temps. are all in decline too, SST3 data
The reality is that we now cool fast even as CO2 goes over the 400 p.p.m. mark.Why do we no longer see warming?

Because the absorption spectra for CO2 is already almost fully saturated.A graph by Prof.Richard Lindzen and Choi
Shows how the first 20 p.p.m. of CO2 has the greatest greenhouse effect.Each increment of 20 extra units of CO2
has only half as much effect as the previous 20 units .That explains why even after enriching our atmosphere with
some 120 p.p.m. extra CO2 there has been no measurement of extra warming above that expected from natural

variability.There is also satellite data that measures Outgoing long wave infrared radiation ,the type of radiation
that CO2 intercepts.A friend of mine requested the data from N.O.A.A. They sent it he extrapolated it. It showed
that Outgoing longwave infrared radiation was not dropping and indeed was exceeding the incoming Short wave
radiation .That means we were cooling .Extra Co2 had not slowed perceptibly the loss of heat from our planet as
was expected.And no the ''lost heat ''has not gone into the oceans.They too cool .The lost heat has gone back to

outer space.,as shown by satellite measurement for Outgoiing longwave infrared radiation.
The science that you in government are being fed is from the old school of the great protagonists of D.A.G.W. Dr
James Hansen and Gavin Schmidt of N.A.S.A.'s G.I.S.S and Prof Michael Mann of Pen State [famous for his
fraudulent ''Hockey stick Graph ''the one where he did away with the ''Medieval warm period .To prove for yourself

that they are ''failed scientists ''look back into their early works their predictions, graphs, climate models. made at
the start of this century.You will see they got it ALL WRONG.yet your advisers at Victoria and N.I.W.A. still believe
their ''Failed Science'.
Please will our Government walk away from the Paris /accord as Has President Trump Trump has had conversation

with The likes of Profs. William Happer Richard Lindzen He now knows the hoax of D.A.G.W. was not caused by the
Chinese .Trump now knows and has said ''The United nations created the hoax'' He is correct .I have known that for
a long time.
The damage to our economy will be immense if we carry on .with the Paris agreement, Zero Carbon 1million

hectares 5 lambs per hectare export value $200x30 years to forest harvest ? $30 billion opportunity cost
[conservative figures my hill country would do nearly three times as many lambs.
Here is what i see happening at present
The ''Economic limited express''is hurtling at full steam towards it's Tangiwai Bridge.The engineers on the footplate

are our politicians .The climate scientists from N.I.W.A and Victoria are the firemen.I write this submission in the
hope that i can do a Cyril Ellis and wave my torch to warn.The Bridge is down.
I just hope someone on the footplate will look out in time,before it is too late .Clearly the firemen will not as they
are blind with ''Groupthink''
PLEASE stop this TRAIN WRECK of our economy GET RIGHT OUT OF PARIS.

yours Sincerely
William Partridge B.Sc.
P.S. If any one wants to learn about the Science that does explain climate change both warming and cooling give me
a call                                   i can give a lecture or debate the science.
Subject: FW: Additional information to go with my Submission sent 24 hours ago. From


                 carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 06/07/2018 12:10 PM

From: Climate Consultation

Sent: Friday, 6 July 2018 11:48 AM
To: ZCB Submissions <ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: FW: Additional information to go with my Submission sent 24 hours ago.

Hi


Additional info for submission from William Partidge.





From: William Partridge                         >
Sent: Friday, 6 July 2018 12:35 AM
To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: Additional information to go with my Submission sent 24 hours ago. F


To all who it may concern .Since i put in my plea for our Government to TAKE US OUT of THE PARIS AGREEMENT i
have come across 3 bits of information that i wish to add on to my submission
1 Sea ice extent late this June 2018 is one million square kilometres greater than at the same time last year.Is that
warming? i think not.

2.Australia semslikely to pull out of the Paris accord.
3 Canadian ''State'' of Ontario have had the sense to elect a new Governor who is going to try and undo the terrible
damage to Ontario's economy .Ontario was unfortunate in that it was governed by Sir Mauri Strong.One time
secretary Genera, second in command at The U.N. Sir Mauri. Strong set up the I.P.C.C. and Agenda 21.He forced

Ontario to adopt '''Climate change control ''measures earlier than any where else in the world.What has it achieved
for Ontario? They are catastrophically in debt .$300 billion +.The rise in power prices caused by Sir Mauri. Strong
sent business broke, or off shore.Other states in Canada now have to subsidise Ontario .
The world is waking up to Sir Mauri's Hoax America,Ontario,Australia. Come on New Zealand let us too lead the

world in getting out of this catastrophic hoax caused by Mr. Strong and his I.P.C.C. I have Given You the Science
that does explain Climate Change.I have Shown that Warming has finished.And now i have hinted at One source of
the politics behind the D.A.G.W. hoax The late Sir Mauri Strong .Here is a quote from Sir mauri. when he was about
to set up the I.P.C.C.. back then it was thought that the warming seen was due to extra CO2. ''The west created this

problem and they are going to have to pay for it''' Well now that we know there is NO Problem .We must Abandon
the Paris Accord and not pay for a problem that does not exist and was not of our making.
Ottmar Endhoffer A high ranking U.N. ---I.P.C.C. official has stated that'' Climate change now has little to do with
climate it is all about the redistribution of wealth''

Sadly that is so true. Every poor person in the first world pays extra tax and costs on everything so that a few very
wealthy people in the third world can get extraordinarily wealthy eg.Rajendra Pachauri one time chairman of the
I.P.C.C. .No seriously there are some people in the first world getting seriously wealthy too, from the money flow.
Please let me know if you have received my submission.and following letter.The information i give is of the utmost
importance because if our Government goes ahead with the measures that it has planed,it will take this Country

down the path That Ontario has gone down.Economic destruction. We do not need to go that way.The hoax is being
exposed. .The'' failed science '' is being proven failed science by ''Laboratory Planet Earth'.'Please M.F.E. Advise
this government'' Get out of the Paris Agreement''
Yours Sincerely

William partridge B.Sc.London
