Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 06/07/2018 04:58 PM

Dear Minister, Greenpeace composed an excellent reasonable, factual submission, which I hope you will have read

by now. However, I feel so strongly about this steamroller issue, that I must add a few of my own words. We have
lost a lot of time that could have been devoted to ameliorating our national carbon footprint due to government
foot dragging and reluctance to acknowledge the seriousness of the threat climate change poses. This is
frightening and as time goes on and scientists publish papers showing that the rate of loss from the West Antarctic

ice sheet has increased sharply in the past five years, it becomes more frightening. By now our agricultural sector
should be well on the way to converting land from dairy into bean and nut crops. It isn't. Instead work is still in
progress on a major conversion to dairy in the Mackenzie country. This simply has to change, and quickly. I support
the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science
and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of

limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating
impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us the best
possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all
greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the
next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate

frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to
success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to
exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a
Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should

be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be
just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by
actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on

forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.
The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of
the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold

and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Lorna Sutherland
