Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 06/07/2018 05:44 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a

Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should
be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be
just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by

actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.
The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of

the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold
and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. I grew up in one of the countries
where "winter" meant the season where snow lay permanently on the ground. Snow that fell after Halloween did
not melt again until Easter. In 1980 the spring came and I said to myself "My that was a really warm winter!" But

the next winter was even warmer. And winter kept arriving later and leaving earlier. In 1985 I first heard the term
"global warming", and I said to myself "That's what's going on!". I still couldn't be sure if it was a climate fluctuation
or something caused by humans, but I knew that the science had been around since the 1930s indicating that
humans should be warming the planet. By the 1990s I was sure it was us causing it. But the climate deniers just
got louder and more influential. They have delayed us from taking action for 30 years now. The winters I talked

about have shortened to the point that freeze-up on my river averages multiple weeks later than it did when I was a
kid, and break up of the ice happens weeks earlier, and snow can disappear from the ground in any month of the
winter. I am old enough that even if we fix the problem now, I will never see "winter" again. It is permanently gone
from my life. That is an emotional thing for me, but for other species it is life. If the climate changes, they die, and
leave a permanent hole in the web of life. That means all of us lose not just seasons, but ecosystems. Some of which

we may depend upon more than we think. We need to act now because we have already missed several boats. The
longer we wait, the more boats we miss. Yours sincerely, Valerie Tomlinson
