Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 06/07/2018 06:16 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. Climate change will affect many people, and

other organisms on Earth. I'm only 17 but I don't want to live in a world where climate change causes disasters and
problems worldwide. It's not fair that the earth is passed on to my generation in this state so it is everyone's
responsibility to do something about it, now. NZ can do something with this act. It's easy to dismiss climate change
because sometimes it's difficult to see the effects in person, but you must understand that it will affect the lives of

so many people personally. Like many things it's something where statistics can really not mean much, but each
pacific island person forced out of their country, each farmer in a developing country that can no longer grow food
with the changing climate, and each animal that will be in danger from their changing habitat, will be affected so
it's not fair that we do nothing. So, The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and
international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting

warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on
Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of
achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse
gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I
support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The

Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling
climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from
our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose
role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is
merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a

bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes.
While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that -
recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in
our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as

carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at
the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have
broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world
needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the
challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and

pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Sam Netherclift
