Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 06/07/2018 09:26 PM

Dear Minister, Ko au Tania Wolfgramm. I am the Executive Director of the Global Reach Initiative & Development

(GRID Pacific) Street View Programme. Myfather Tevita Wolfgramm is of Ha’a Lavaki, Tapueluelu; descendants of
‘Ulukalala, Tu’i Vava’u of the Kingdom of Tonga. My mother is Whakatohea and Te Aupouri of the tribes of Aotearoa
New Zealand. I am a director, strategist, systems designer, innovator, and technologist. I have extensive experience
in systems development, seeking transformative and sustainable solutions that enhance the wellbeing of Māori /

Pacific / Indigenous communities. A specialist in cultural psychology, I am the founder of the HAKAMANA System of
Design, Development, and Evaluation which has been applied across numerous countries, programmes and
initiatives, including: Creative (Pou Kapua; Whaotapu); Health (Whanau Ora / Samoa M&E System); Indigenous
Development (TE HA Alliance); and Pacific Advancement (GRID Pacific | GRID Tonga). I am passionate about sharing
the story of the Pacific Moana (Ocean) and Islands with the world – so that they can enjoy it in both the real world,

and in the virtual world. (see my work at www.gridpacific.com; www.hakamana.com; www.poukapua.com). Tonga is
located within the ‘Ring of Fire’ in the South Pacific and is vulnerable to natural disasters including tropical
cyclones, flooding and storm surges, earthquakes, tsunami, volcanic eruptions, and a raft of emergencies resulting
from global warming and climate change. On February 12th, 2018, Tonga was hit by Cyclone Gita, a devastating
Category 4-5 tropical cyclone, destroying infrastructure, agriculture, buildings, and homes, leaving Tongatapu and

its neighbouring island ‘Eua without power, little water, and compromised food supplies. On February 14th, 2018,
two days after Tonga was hit by Cyclone Gita, I returned to Tonga with my daughter and acquired Street View data
and imagery (30 frames per second in 8k resolution) across all the main roads and villages of Tongatapu. The
imagery shows a street level picture of widespread devastation. The data can be used to help Tonga, not only with
disaster recovery, but also with future emergency planning and management. The Cook Islands comprises 15

islands, seven of which have a highest point of about 15 metres above sea level. Located with the ‘cyclone belt’ the
islands and its people are increasingly vulnerable to natural disasters including tropical cyclones, flooding and
storm surges, tsunami, erosion and landslides, fire, and a raft of emergencies resulting from global warming and
climate change. Over the last 15 years these disasters have resulted in many deaths, extensive devastation and

damage with ongoing social, emotional, environmental, and economic costs to the islands and their people.
Anthropogenic driven environmental damage such pollution, ocean acidification, coral bleaching, and sediment
build up have also had devastating effects on the Cook Islands. I have seen and experienced the destruction and
devastation that climate change and climate disasters have wrought across our Pacific neighbours. We need to
remember that it is not these small and isolated islands themselves that have wrought such havoc on their

environments. Islanders, such as myself, live with the consequences of our nations greed and avarice. I had the
misfortune of contracting ciguatera poisoning in Tonga a few years ago. Not only was I severely ill, but I can no
longer eat seafood - truly a preposterous situation, given that I am an islander! Ciguatera poisoning is increasing in
the islands as it is caused by reef fish contaminated by ciguatoxins from dying and dead coral reefs. The toxin bio-
magnifies in larger fish. Those coral reefs are dying because of rising seas, ocean warming and disgusting

pollution and poisons spilt into the Pacific from all around the world - including New Zealand. New Zealand must
take a stand - loud and clear - as a global leader in the fight against climate disaster and environmental
degradation. NZ must say, "we New Zealander's will no longer throw our dirty rubbish into our neighbour's home,
backyard, and waters. And we will start the clean up at home!" Furthermore, as a Maori, I am sick and tired of
seeing our taonga, our whenua and rivers polluted beyond use. We do not need so many cows! We need to have

diverse agriculture and food systems that feed nourishing, organic food to our own people. Food sovereignty starts
with our whanau, hapu, iwi, communities, and needs to extend to every corner of our nation. Swapping milk and
milk products for other peoples (often substandard) products is unnecessary. New Zealand can also be at the
forefront of clean food, clean water, clean energy. I have recently returned from Vava'u in Tonga, where all of the
outlying islands villages are entirely on solar energy. If a small, low-resource country like that can do it - then surely

a larger, high-resource country like NZ can. Make no more excuses! We have many resources for having our country
on clean and alternative energies. Furthermore, I have three children and three grandchildren. We need to leave a
country cleaner than the one we are now living in. Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law.
The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including

all gases and all sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees or less. We
should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause
significant extinctions - as I explained earlier in this submission. 2 degrees is not acceptable! To give us the best
possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all
greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the

next decade. Time is of the essence. Tonga already lost one island a few years ago. Many others are at threat of
being lost to warm rising oceans. There will soon by thousands of climate refugees in the Pacific. I support all
greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling
climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from

our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose
role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is
merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Furthermore, as an evaluation specialist, a robust
monitoring and evaluation framework must be developed, at it's inception, to ensure that each indicator, target,
and there measures are clean and accountability is transparent. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set

a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. I
support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions,
and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. This point
is very important. We cannot pollute in NZ and think that growing trees in Europe is going to fix the global issue.
Each country must clean up their own mess! While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party
agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to

address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid
catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with
big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. I am happy to put my hand up to help a team to develop a monitoring and evaluation framework for

the Climate Commission (I was a founding member of the Aotearoa New Zealand Evaluation Association) Kia kaha
everyone - we can get this important work done. And others will follow for sure. Yours sincerely, Tania Wolfgramm
