Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 06/07/2018 09:32 PM

To the Minister for the Environment, I believe our environment is the single most important issue facing life on our

planet, and that for humans particularly, climate change is the most important environmental issue. I support the
passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and
international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. Ambitious means the legislation should establish
the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. To achieve this goal, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases

beginning now. To emphasise the urgency of necessary action, I support a net-zero target of 2030 - only just over a
decade to effect the required changes. We know, and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have been
unequivocal that methane emissions must be significantly reduced, as it traps over 100 times more heat than CO2
over a five year period. For this reason it is imperative that New Zealand’s climate law includes measures to
minimise methane emissions from all sectors, especially in our biggest source, the agricultural industry. The

following paragraphs are from the Greenpeace recommended submission, which I support whole heartedly. I
support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate
Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.
Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered
by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from

the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s
targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon
credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-
party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to

address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid
catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with
big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. Yours sincerely, Peter Douglas
