Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 07/07/2018 06:36 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I implore that you not allow

exceptions to agriculture. Though this may hurt in the short term it is the only responsible way forward and will
incentivise farmers to change their practices. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role
should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely
an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-
minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While

budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I
support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions,
and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. Purchase
or credits to offset emmisons is not sustainable in the long term and undermines other efforts to reduce emissions.
How many times in hindsight have we seen government policy as two conservative, decades spent procrastinating

on freshwater policy with the warnings of leading scientists. has seen major degradation of our waterways and our
countries spirit as a clean and green nation, with massive costs to later generations in cleaning up to the mess.
The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of
the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold

and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Daniel Duke
