Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 07/07/2018 10:12 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. HOWEVER Dear Minister, I support the passing

of legally binding climate law. HOWEVER YOU NEED TO KNOW that we already have a technology called ZERO
POINT ENERGY ( taken from the quantum field all around us) This is clean green and FREE for EVERYONE all over
the ENTIRE world. WHY is it not out there being used??? Well, that's up to people like you and our government to
FORCE the RELEASE of this technology that has been SUPPRESSED for the LAST SIXTY YEARS!! Yes thats right for

the last SIXTY years we have had no need for COAL OIL GAS PETROL DIESEL NUCLEAR GEO THERMAL etc. The
reason this technology is being suppressed and our people being killed when they try and release it?? GREED. The
cabal ( or Illuminati) have hidden this amazing technology that was given to us from our off-planet benevolent ETs.
It was given to humanity for everyone's USE BUT this very small group of people decided they were not willing to
lose their income from the sale of electricity ( Tesla in the 1890s had this sorted for free electricity for everyone and

he was taken out and quashed!) and they don't want to lose their trillions of $ from the sale of oil and all its
derivatives. SOOOO...... We are 7 billion people being held to ransom for a better world by just a few families that
RULE the world. Is that justice? When are WE going to DO something about this??? When are governments going
to turn on these very powerful people? and release this technology??? I will tell you when the people will turn en
masse!! When EVERY SINGLE PERSON and that means YOU that is reading this has HALF the money they have

taken out of their bank account by these already mega-rich people ( because they can as they own the banks) THEN
humanity will be up in arms!! Then people will question what is happening!! Until then people really are not aware
of what is REALLY happening on this planet!! That's why we made a documentary called "UNACKNOWLEDGED" Its
number one on Netflix and the like for the last year and you can buy it from Amazon/ I Tunes etc. However I HAVE
sent the link (to watch for free) to this to the PM ( got no reply) and the Green Party leader ( got thank you will pass

on to climate change minister!) Well IF this has been watched in parliament then you SHOULD have got back to me
with a million questions !!! and you did not so I guess no one ever watched it. So that's the APATHY that something
SO IMPORTANT as saving the entire PLANET is put aside. Global warming ( which is natural and not man-made)
and pollution would cease immediately and the damage done can be cleaned up within a few years. We have SO

MUCH more amazing technology that will make this planet THE most amazing place to live AND it's ALL BEING
SUPPRESSED!!! A very small amount of the technology we gained has been released in the form of computers and
smartphones etc that we now have but the major stuff is being held back, especially the medical stuff. We will have
no need for cabal owned drug companies that are actually poisoning us ( along with fluoride and GMO and many
other things ike chemtrails).as we have technology that will eradicate all diseases and conditions! ( and even grow

new fingers and toes) If you think this sounds like science fiction then it does but its NOT. All sci-fi films in the last
40 years or more have taken their storylines from REALITY and the things you see in these movies already exist and
have been taken by the Military Industrial Complex to weaponise where possible. Believe me this is ONLY the tip of
the ice berg and it is time that people like yourself looked into this and got themselves and the government
educated!! xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx The law must be fair, ambitious and

consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The
legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees
warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is
not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the
century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with

the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law,
consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear
that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable
for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I
support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate

Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.
Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered
by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from
the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s

targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon
credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-
party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to
address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid

catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with
big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. Yours sincerely, Sandi Cooke
