Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 07/07/2018 11:46 AM

Dear Minister, I am writing in strong support of the Zero Carbon Act which I believe should be a piece of landmark

legislation to protect the environment. Climate change is currently the biggest challenge facing humankind and
while New Zealand is small it must do its bit. Recent surveys have shown that New Zealanders are concerned about
the environmental and climate issues that we face and I support the government in taking firm and considered
action as outlined in the act. I know it will be difficult to drive a strong law through the process and wish to be one

of many to add my support to this bold move. I finish with the words of Greenpeace which I believe cover the main
requirements for a truly effective piece of legislation: The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the
climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us

the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid
cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate

law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a
Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should
be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be

just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by
actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be

wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.
The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of
the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold
and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Margaret Comrie
