Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 07/07/2018 12:00 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. While New Zealand's contribution to emissions is

tiny and therefore any contribution we make to emissions reduction will be even tinier, New Zealand could - and I
argue should - choose to be a moral leader rather than a reluctant follower on this issue. As the Prime Minister
says, this is our Nuclear Free moment. We owe it to our Pacific Island neighbours, to the environment and to future
generations to lead the way and put moral pressure on the governments of larger economies to act with urgency.

The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including
all gases and all sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. I believe that
consensus across political parties is essential, but also that climate law must be strong. It is essential that the
whole of parliament strives to reach agreement. We can't afford to waste time by passing strong legislation now
only for it to be revoked by a future government. Please make it a priority to get cross-party support for strong

climate legislation. I strongly support the establishment of a Climate Commission, the role of which should be to
devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory
group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition,
which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be
binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the

‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not
through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. The world needs
pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge.
The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong
law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Chris Cosslett
