Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 08/07/2018 10:22 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. Regardless of the science, and the debate over

facts, it is common sense to reduce pollution where possible for the good of our children. We must preserve clean
water and air, in keeping with he 17 sustainable development goals. Business leaders are rewarded for making
money for their shareholders. It's a worthy goal that supports jobs, but it's hard work, made easier if the
environmental consequences don't have to be dealt with. The capitalism model relies on a government imposing

rules to prevent depletion or destruction of natural resources. If the government will not impose rules then
business leaders must look to their own personal ethics and there can be conflict between profit and sustainability.
There is no blame to be attached; it's a model that relies on rules. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent
with international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the
majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law,

consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear
that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable
for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I
support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate
Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.

Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered
by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from
the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s
targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon
credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. Thank you for considering my submission. Yours sincerely,

Colleen Farrelly
