Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 08/07/2018 11:46 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. HOWEVER I believe agriculture

can make a huge positive contribution to carbon sequestration, through the reintegration of carbon into the soil, in
the form of humus. Through newly (re-)emerging biological farming methods it is possible for soil carbon storage to
play a significant role - as far as I am aware, this has largely been ignored by policymakers so far, however there is
extensive literature on the subject, for example: https://www.onpasture.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Lal-Soil-
carbon-sequestration-to-mitigate-climate-change.pdf Although it is not the complete answer it should be a priority

in NZ, as there are also benefits to food security and other positive environmental outcomes to be had. While
consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong
climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement
on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to
transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is

clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the
sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Ottilie Upshall
