Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 08/07/2018 12:38 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a

Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should
be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be
just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by

actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.
The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of

the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold
and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. In my travels in New Zealand and
overseas I am increasingly dismayed by comments from international visitors regarding the dissonance between
New Zealand's touted image of clean and green, and the reality, in particular with respect to the polluted

waterways. It is lowering the respect of many toward our country, and justly so in my view. We were once a country
prepared to buck the trends of the rest of the world when those trends were deleterious to our national well-being
(sic) but, post-Roger Douglas, John Key, and their ilk it seems that we as a nation are now too timid to do other than
rest in the pockets of Big Money. It's not too late to do better than that. Our fiercely independent decision to refuse
nuclear ships in our international waters is to this day admired by many people outside our county, in 'third' and

'first' world countries. I have enjoyed the respect of other peoples for New Zealanders' stand on that issue
everywhere I have traveled in both hemispheres That is the stuff I want our country to be made of still. I want a
government who has the courage, the nous, and the grit to stand up for the long term best interests of its citizens
and the environment of our land. You have the country's vote, now please show your loyalty to carrying through on
those promises which were amongst your main aims. Thankyou for your time. Yours sincerely, Jocelyn Munro
