Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 08/07/2018 01:58 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. A report in the
Guardian newspaper on 6 July about a report published in Nature Geoscience, stated that an international team of
researchers from 17 countries believe temperature rises as a result of global warming could eventually be double
what has been projected by climate models and sea levels could rise by 6 metres or more if the world does not meet

the 2 degree target of the Paris accord. This increases the urgency with which all countries need to address
emissions. New Zealand needs to be bold and show international leadership. The legislation should establish the
goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating
impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us the best
possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in

ALL greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over
the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate
frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to
success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to
exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. The issue of methane reduction cannot

be left to individual farmers and Fonterra to manage and I think the Board of Fonterra need to tackle strategic
planning for 20 or 30 years out. Will the current business model be sustainable over that period? I doubt it. I
support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate
Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.
Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered

by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from
the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s
targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon
credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-

party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to
address the problem is strong law. Further, such strong law should be entrenched, requiring a 75% majority to
change it. This important legislation should not be able to be undermined in the name of party politics. The world
needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the

challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and
pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Susan Yorke
