Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 09/07/2018 09:56 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. In my view, this is the most important legislation

ever to come before the house. There will be huge pressure to water it down. That would not be acceptable. Our
planetary future is at stake here. Strong guidelines are vital to our future. The legislation should establish the goal
of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating
impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us the best

possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all
greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the
next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate
frameworks. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from
our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose

role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is
merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a
bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed time frames. I
support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions,
and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While

consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong
climate law. Yours sincerely, Ian Crumpton
