Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 09/07/2018 10:42 AM

Dear Minister, We, who in our last 50 years have exploited, wasted and trashed this planet and its multitude of life-

preserving and sustaining resources for our own transient , gluttonous and grandiose appetites, and for the
perpetuation of a deeply primitive but corrupted state of bitter competition and aggression, surely have a
responsibility at this critical time, to exercise some care and compassion for our children and their children and
their children's children with possibly out last chance to make some amends for a generation's mindlessness, by at

least giving our support to the passing of legally binding climate law. It must be fair, ambitious and consistent with
the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation would
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We'd not settle for 2 degrees warming, which would lock in
devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. To give us the best possibility of
achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there need to be rapid cuts in all

greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the
next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate
frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to
success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to
exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a

Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should
be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be
just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by

actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.

The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of
the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold
and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Guyon Neutze
