Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 09/07/2018 11:12 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. This sector obviously needs to

change and to do this they will need strong government and community support. They should not be made to feel
like scapegoats but encouraged to join in action knowing that the hard decisions will be worked through with them
in ways that focus on solutions that provide them with alternatives. One of these solutions and perhaps the most
essential of all that is becoming clearer with more evidence is that NZ and the world need to change our diets. The
government needs to start thinking about ways that this can happen for all of us. It is a huge challenge but one

that if we don't do will lead to many of these climate agreements having difficulties in succeeding. I support the
establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission
should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate
budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by
government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the

Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets
must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or
an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks. The reduction of land use for dairy and meat is essential and returning
this land to more natural states reduces emissions whilst also functioning as a carbon sink. While consensus across

political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law.
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law,
when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational
change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only
way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our

precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Rob Orr
