Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 09/07/2018 11:48 AM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:






























Is there anything you'd like to add?
we should be an independent country by now like Niue- instead we are following America.. come on Labour get

your head out of the fame cloud and into the reality of fixing the destruction humans have caused. Stop giving away
our money to other countries for brownie points! Its insane, and now Labour is talking about treating all NZ tap
water- more poisoning of the people... there's nothing WRONG with NZ's water!. The political Nonsense is never
ending and very over the top. Clean Green NZ is a joke thanks to our Goverments never ending stupid decisions
and not listening to its people even when we scream at them to STOP. .


Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting
Yes


I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No

If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No



Submitted on Mon 9 Jul 2018

