Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 09/07/2018 02:08 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

    target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
    The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
    target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

    Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
    achieve them.
    An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
    Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
SARAH


Last Name
RUSSELL

Email





















Is there anything you'd like to add?
A lot of people find this all a bit removed from their own actions and everyone needs to 'own' this. Individuals are

keen to know what we all can do to achieve this goal. A plan of action which we can follow in our everyday lives
please?
A lot of people have no idea about surviving the effects of Global Warming. I would suggest advice given to each
household on survival techniques, especially seeing the deaths caused by the heatwave in the Northern
Hemisphere at present. There are many things we can do but often need advice on how to set up a safe

environment. Small things like how to keep cool or how to avoid flood waters will be valuable. We're good at
earthquake and fire drills but will be needing more.

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting

No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No


If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No

Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?

No
Submitted on Mon 9 Jul 2018
