Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 09/07/2018 06:10 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. Climate change is a global problem and New

Zealand must take responsibility for it past and present emissions The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent
with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us

the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid
cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate

law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a
Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should
be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be

just that - recommendations. We must ensure that the Zero Carbon Bill is transparent. There must be a
requirement to produce annual reports about New Zealand’s international climate change contributions to ensure
that the Pacific countries get the support they need and can plan to adapt to their changing environment. I support
the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not
through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus

across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law.
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law,
when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational
change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only

way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our
precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Claire Thornton
