Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 10/07/2018 08:38 AM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Jennifer


Last Name
Goldsack























Is there anything you'd like to add?
Should the early settlers have cut down so many kauri trees and cleared so much land? We are still doing it. As a

child I picked watercress from streams and heard frogs at night. Now it is rare to see native birds and lizards
without going to special preserved places to hopefully get a glimpse of not a flock but a few individuals. Is there
anything wrong with this? There are now more poor people in New Zealand than ever - despite immigration
purported to be 'good for our country'. Increased population has eroded our beautiful country and lifestyle at all
levels - crowded roads, over-loaded infra-structure requiring petrol tax, toilet tax, bed tax. It sounds like the middle

ages in industrial Britain - we have yet to suggest window tax. Greed has denuded the land, polluted the
waterways and enriched the few, many of whom do not live in New Zealand. Zero Carbon Tax will not right the
wrongs but it will pave ! a possibl e way forward and preserve the small amount of pristine areas left in New
Zealand, and reverse farming, milling and mining that benefits the few and destroys forever.


Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting
No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest

No

If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No
Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No



Submitted on Tue 10 Jul 2018
