Subject: FW: Thanks for committing to make a submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz


Date: 10/07/2018 08:47 AM

Hi there,
Please find a submission on the Zero Carbon Bill sent through to the Green Leaders office below.
Kind regards,


From: Green Responses
Sent: Monday, 9 July 2018 5:30 PM
To:

Subject: FW: Thanks for committing to make a submission on the Zero Carbon Bill
From: David Ryrie
Sent: Monday, 9 July 2018 2:38 PM
To: Gareth Hughes, Green MP
Subject: Re: Thanks for committing to make a submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

I have tried sending my submission to website listed, but was not able to find it! Are you able to forward on my
behalf please. Submission re Zero Carbon Bill
"As a New Zealand citizen, (though raised in UK) I treasure the 45 years I have been able to live here enjoying the
space for families to grow and explore. But pressures for homes and infrastructure with increasing dependence on

cars has increased hugely.
Zero emissions for vehicles is a necessary target for local government. Cities of the future for pedestrians only
would reduce pollution and congestion. Public transport using clean fuels, plus better use of Rail to reduce the use
of trucks on Highways would help reduce emissions. Industries are beginning to act responsibly, though I am not

sure how the agricultural sector is planning to progress yet. Safer cycling everyday, (not just recreational) would
also contribute.
Having achievable goals in periods of five year blocks to measure progress until 2050, with advice on each target by

an independent body.
People are now experiencing more numerous and extreme weather events and so recognise there is a problem.
They are more willing to find ways to be prepared and adapt to climate change as well as trying to reduce the
excess CO2 and other gases.

I am grateful we now have a government committed to working towards zero carbon emissions."
Sincerely Gill Ryrie
