Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 10/07/2018 04:44 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. Severe and frequent climate
events are already causing disasters around the world and displacing people from their homes particularly in the

Pacific. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century,
there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the
majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law,
consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear
that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable

for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases (ie methane and nitrous oxide) from our biggest emitting sector
- the agricultural sector. The NZ Government needs to cease the petroleum Block Offer process, fossil fuel
subsidies and exploration which are driving climate change. The fossil fuel industry and its workers require strong
incentives to transition to renewable, sustainable, clean energy initiatives and development. Global action needs to
be taken urgently for the sake of our planetary health due to the inevitable and severe climate change

consequences of fossil fuel use, now occurring with increasing frequency - extreme temperatures; flooding and
coastal erosion; drought and bush fires. Those most at risk include our Pacific Island neighbours, those living with
socio-economic deprivation; children and elderly people; those with chronic health conditions and those living in
countries with weak health systems. In 2012, the International Energy Agency reported ‘Only a third of the carbon
contained in proven reserves of fossil fuels can be released into the atmosphere by 2050 if the world is to keep

below the 2°C target', agreed in December 2009 at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC).
This warning was repeated in a scientific paper published in Nature (January 2015; McGlade C and Ekins P;
517:187-190): 'To have at least a 50% chance of keeping below the agreed 2°C target, it is estimated that a third of
known global oil reserves, half of gas reserves and over 80 per cent of coal reserves should remain unused from

2010 to 2050'. ie. fossil fuels needs to stay in the ground. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission,
whose role should be to devise incremental 5-year binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory
teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally
binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be

just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by
actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.

The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of
the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold
and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Fred Hirst
