Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 10/07/2018 04:42 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Jeremy


Last Name
Buck























Is there anything you'd like to add?
In order that we do not just 'off-shore' our emissions, we need to treat the final consumer as the cause of all the

emissions from a good or service. Then we can truly see the impact we have, and make the cost of fixing the issue
attributed most to those who have benefited most from a system that ignored most environmental externalities.

We need zero or near zero emissions homes and other buildings in the building code. I am a builder and am up for
the challenge of a 10 year transition period to get the industry trained up and ready. It is well documented that the

energy savings in heating alone can make the cost of running a building over 10-20 years cover any increased build
costs. New Zealand should be known for building the best quality, warmest and healthiest homes in the world. No
messing around at Homestar 6; we need PassivHaus and natural materials immediately!

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public

posting
No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No


If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No


Submitted on Tue 10 Jul 2018
