Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Oliver Hoffmann

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 10/07/2018 05:59 PM

Dear Madam / Sir

                          Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Oliver Hoffmann

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because it's high time that our nation
contributes to the world's move to take climate change seriously and to do something about it instead of just

burying our head in the sand and pretending the problems associated with climate change will go away by
themselves, which they of course won't.

2050 target


Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation? (In legislation
now, or later via the Climate Commission?)

A process that aims at net zero carbon emissions by the year 2050.



Q2. Which is the best 2050 target for New Zealand? (Which emissions should be covered and how?)

With about half of our country's emissions being from short-lived gases we need to ensure that our target is to
include all gases - and certainly the long-lived gases as an absolute minimum.



Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets? (Within New Zealand, or with international trading too?)


Our goal needs to be to reduce the emission rate to zero, thus giving credence to the word "zero" in the Act.
Trading "credits" on the international market should not be an acceptable way of avoiding our true obligations.


Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?


I see no problems with strengthening the 2050 target since the Paris Agreement only came up with its
recommendations at the time as an absolute minimum requirement. Using a term of "changing" circumstances
should not be used to water down any targets based on the interpretation of what might be considered to be
"changed" circumstances.


Emissions budgets

Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be
in place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?


Yes, I agree that they sound sensible and I accept that a large country with more expertise than our smaller one
will have done its homework sufficiently well for its budgets to have been well thought out.



Q6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?

No, as again I fear that any alterations may have a net negative effect on the purpose of introducing true net zero
emissions. The only reason for any changes that I can see would have to be based on major scientific discoveries

and nothing else.


Q7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific
range under exceptional circumstances?


No: See above.


Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that the Government and the Climate Commission will need to

take into account when advising on and setting budgets?

Yes.

Government response


Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the
emissions budgets?
Yes, setting deadlines allows us to establish step-by-step goals along the way so that we can monitor our process
and help ensure that the final goal is met on time.



Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For
example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?


There are many considerations needed, far too many for me to list here, but I trust that the groups set up to work
on the implementation of the Act will brainstorm and then incorporate all the ideas that they come up, obviously
including consultation with all the affected groups. Such considerations will include New Zealand's own special
situation - our sense of social fairness and the Treaty of Waitangi as well as respect for our native fauna and flora -
but not be restricted to these factors.


Climate Change Commission

Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's
progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?


Yes, as per an earlier question.


Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions

Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)? (Should it provide advice, or make decisions too?)

To provide guidance and advice.



Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and
desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?

Yes.


Adapting to the impact of climate change

Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?


Of course.


Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree
with the proposed functions?


Yes, they all sound sensible.


Q16. Should the Government explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some

organisations share information on their exposure to climate change risks?

Yes.


An extra point to consider - climate finance



Conclusion


I appreciate this opportunity to provide feedback in the development of the Zero Carbon Act and I am particularly
impressed with the energy and drive provided by a group of our young people, encapsulated within the Generation
Zero team, that has done so much research and taken the initiative to move this important issue so high up on our
country's agenda.


Thank you,

Oliver Hoffmann
