Subject: FW: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 11/07/2018 11:44 AM

-----Original Message----- From:                  Sent: Wednesday, 4 July 2018 11:54 PM To: ZCB Submissions

Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill Dear Minister, I´m delighted to see the government taking a stand on
climate change and especially when others are seeking to pull out of the Paris agreement, e.g. Tony Abbot in
Australia. The passing of legally binding climate law is very welcome and long overdure. And it´s also good to see
New Zealand leading the way, it´s exactly the leadership the world needs. The new law should be fair, ambitious

and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. Action
by New Zealand alone cannot hold global mean temperature rise below 1.5 °C, we are already approaching more
than 1 °C. But to aim for zero net emissions within a tight time frame is something that all nations should be aiming
for. To give us the best possibility of limiting temperature rise there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases
beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I

support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling
climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from
our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose
role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is

merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a
bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes.
While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that -
recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in
our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as

carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at
the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have
broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world
needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the

challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and
pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Once again, I commend the government
for taking action and look forward to seeing the progress of the bill. Of course, strong advocacy will be necessary
to get the bill through, so we need to lead the community forward and convince them that this is the best way.
Yours sincerely, Jeremy Wilkinson
