Subject: FW: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 11/07/2018 11:52 AM

-----Original Message----- From:                               Sent: Wednesday, 4 July 2018 11:08 PM To: ZCB

Submissions Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding
climate law. Climate law gives businesses the incentive to innovate in the field of resource management. Under the
current system it is cheaper for businesses to degrade our environment than to save it. This is an economic fallacy
as the market price of products does not reflect the costs of using non renewable resources. These costs are

externalised by these businesses and it is we the consumers, our environment and future generations that pay. It is
the governments role to allocate the available resources within a country to serve within the best interests of its
people and insure the longevity of those resources. As it stands companies have no incentive to change their
production processes to be more sustainable it is infact counter intuitive as becoming environmentally conscious
costs businesses more money. Driving the price of their products up and making the most expensive products on

the market the most environmentally sustainable. This law will force businesses that degrade our environment to
internalize these costs inevitably opening the marketplace for local sustainable businesses to thrive. The cheapest
product on the market should be the most sustainable one. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the
climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock

in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid
cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is

critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a
Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should

be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be
just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by
actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be

achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.
The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of
the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold
and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours sincerely, Timothee Nolier
