Subject: FW: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 11/07/2018 01:15 PM

-----Original Message----- From:                           Sent: Wednesday, 4 July 2018 10:34 PM To: ZCB

Submissions Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding
climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks
by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees.
We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and

cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5
degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I
support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse
gases being included in the law, consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is

politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting
sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to
devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory
group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition,
which must be achieved or bettered by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be

binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the
‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not
through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus
across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law.
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law,

when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational
change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only
way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our
precious earth and future generations. One of the most effective ways to achieve much of this would be to change

from road transport to electric rail throughout the country. We could have branch lines running in to a fast
aaaamain trunk line . Limit cars to electric driven vehicles . Long journeys should be by rail. Car can go on a flat
bed carriage and get re-charged and passengers ca be in accompanying carriages. If tyhey can drive on and off to
go through the Channel tunnel they should be able to do it hers. It just means saying no to the truck lobby and
financing rail. There would many jobs building , running and maintaining rail. The heavy traffic would be off the

fragile roads and the maintenance would be greatly reduced , as would the need for more and more roads. There
would be savings from reduction in car accidents. Yours sincerely, Mary McDonald
