Subject: FW: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 11/07/2018 01:31 PM

-----Original Message----- From:                          Sent: Wednesday, 4 July 2018 9:12 PM To: ZCB Submissions

Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill Dear Minister, I fully support the passing of a meaningful and effective
zero carbon act. It is time to deliver on the "clean, green New Zealand" propaganda that until now has been just so
much hot air, if not outright deception. Vested interests and that segment of the population of an age that will not
have to deal with the fallout from their comfortable but ultimately unsustainable lifestyle must not be allowed to

weaken this critical, generation-defining, piece of legislation. No law passed at this late stage can rightly be called
ambitious, but it must at least be adequate. Polluters have been on notice at least since 2006's "An Inconvenient
Truth" giving them more than a decade of advance warning and ample opportunity to put their house in order. A
net-zero target should be an immediate priority for the present government, not some vague aspiration for a future
government to fail to meet. Positive change must begin rapidly now. Better to swallow the medicine quickly than

draw it out over a protracted time period. Plus, there is always more that can be done. All sectors must obviously
be included. No good cutting in one area only to have another take up the slack. In particular the abhorrent
suggestion that New Zealand's worst offender -- the agricultural sector -- should get special treatment (unless that
treatment is especially severe, as befits the lead perpetrator) is to be soundly and forcefully rejected. Nor must the
cuts be fake cuts "purchased" from other nations, which do nothing to address the problem or to adjust the

defective mindset. We must lead by example and show the world how an advanced nation can live within our joint
means, rather than raping the planet for all we can get, while we can get it, at the expense of our co-inhabitants
and our descendants. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. Rise to the challenge. Yours
sincerely, Stuart Wimbush
