Subject: FW: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 11/07/2018 01:48 PM

-----Original Message----- From:                           Sent: Wednesday, 4 July 2018 8:28 PM To: ZCB Submissions

Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The
law must be fair, ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all
gases and all sectors. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is

critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a
Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. I support the ‘firewall’
principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the

purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political
parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change
is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is
urgently needed to address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we
are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can

succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and
future generations. Yours sincerely, pip Challenger
