Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 13/07/2018 08:17 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Teresa


Last Name
Rudgley























Is there anything you'd like to add?
As part of agricultural reduction of emissions Government must enforce fencing of native bush remnants and all

waterways. Additionally, Government must enforce planting of fence lines and steep hill country. Paddock trees
must be established for shade and nitrogen catchment.
Pasture management must include introduction of rough grasses such as fescue and woody herbage such as
thyme, chicory and plantain. Also included in this is the reintroduction of hedgerows which are shown to improve
pasture growth, reduce erosion and pasture drying in drought conditions.

Carbon sinks in the form of marine environments such as mangrove and sea grass should be funded and protected
since they are more effective than any other ecosystem in absorbing carbon dioxide.
Urban landscapes should be designed around walking, biking and public transport.
Power use reduction should be encouraged through reward systems for efficient users.
Support for independent power supply either through solar or wind to individual homes need to be partially funded

by the government and regulation so that individuals can be rewarded for using these systems.
Thank you for your time.

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting

No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No
If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No


Submitted on Fri 13 Jul 2018
