Subject: Attention: Zero Carbon Bill Submission (Lego/Minecraft/3D model)

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 13/07/2018 09:27 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment, I love our native plants and animals. We need a Zero Carbon World! Attached is

a model I built showing what it could look like at my place: Name: Anna Lightbody Email: Age: 7
                         My explanation: In the top picture: This is what's happening, it's not how I want it to look
like - the pollution of burning coal, driving cars and that sort of stuff is making more storms happen. The little blue
penguins can't see their food after the storms and they are giving their babies all the food and they don't have

enough for themselves. They don't have enough food to moult and they die of starvation when they moult. And the
babies can't learn to fish in the stormy water because they can't see the fish. The fish are swimming out to sea too
far and the little penguins when they have babies they have to stay near the babies and they can't get the fish
when the fish are too far away. The fish are swimming into colder waters because it is too warm beside the beach
because of the pollution warming the water up. There's often big waves in storms and it's washing away their

nesting places and places to moult. The bottom picture: I want the little blue penguins to have little waves and lots
of food. I want them to have enough fish for their babies and themselves and their babies can learn how to catch
fish properly. They need not many storms to do this because storms make it hard for the penguins to see in the
water and they need to see to get the fish. They need a good sheltered beach to nest and moult on. If we stop
having pollution from cars and coal there won't be more and more storms and the sea won't go on the land and

take away the nesting places and the penguins will be happy little penguins. I love little blue penguins. I don't want
them to get more endangered. Privacy declaration: If you are under the age of 18, please click this box Under 18s:
Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission [permissions4] I give permission for KCC and
Forest & Bird to use this submission for marketing and communications purposes.

