Subject: Submission


Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz


Date: 14/07/2018 12:46 PM



Submissions form


We seek your feedback on the specific proposals in the Zero Carbon Bill.

Either email this submission to ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz (Microsoft Word document (2003 or later) or PDF) or post to
Ministry for the Environment, PO Box 10362, Wellington, 6143.


Publishing and releasing submissions

All or part of any written submission (including names of submitters) may be published on the Ministry for the
Environment’s website, www.mfe.govt.nz. Unless you clearly specify otherwise in your submission, the Ministry will consider
that you have consented to website posting of both your submission and your name.

Contents of submissions may be released to the public under the Official Information Act 1982 following requests to the

Ministry for the Environment (including via email). Please advise if you have any objection to the release of any information
contained in a submission, including commercially sensitive information, and in particular which part(s) you consider
should be withheld, together with the reason(s) for withholding the information. We will take into account all such

objections when responding to requests for copies of, and information on, submissions to this document under the Official
Information Act.

The Privacy Act 1993 applies certain principles about the collection, use and disclosure of information about individuals by
various agencies, including the Ministry for the Environment. It governs access by individuals to information about

themselves held by agencies. Any personal information you supply to the Ministry in the course of making a submission will
be used by the Ministry only in relation to the matters covered by this document. Please clearly indicate in your submission
if you do not wish your name to be included in any summary of submissions that the Ministry may publish.



Personal / organisation details

You must provide either a company name or given name(s)

Company name

Given names Linda Mary

Surname Cowan

Contact person
Address









Submitter type, pick one:

   ÿ Individual

   ÿ NGO

   ÿ Business / Industry

   ÿ Local Government

   ÿ Central Government

   ÿ Iwi / Māori

   ÿ University

   ÿ Research Institute

   ÿ School

   ÿ Community Group

   ÿ Unspecified / Other


2050 target

1.What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation?

    Pick one:

   ÿ the Government sets a 2050 target in legislation now

   ÿ the Government sets a goal to reach net zero emissions by the second half of the century, and the Climate Change
       Commission advises on the specific target for the Government to set later.


        Optional comment
2.If the Government sets a 2050 target now, which is the best target for New Zealand?

    Pick one:

    ÿnet zero carbon dioxide: Reducing net carbon dioxide emissions to zero by 2050

    ÿnet zero long-lived gases and stabilised short-lived gases: Long-lived gases to net zero by 2050, while also stabilising

       short-lived gases

    ÿnet zero emissions: Net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases by 2050.


         Optional comment



3.How should New Zealand meet its targets?

    Pick one:
    ÿdomestic emissions reductions only (including from new forest planting)

    ÿdomestic emissions reductions (including from new forest planting) and using some emissions reductions from

       overseas (international carbon units) that have strong environmental safeguards.


         Optional comment

         The New Zealand net zero carbon target should be met by
         domestic reductions only. However New Zealand has
         international responsibilities and should be supporting and

         assisting in mitigation and adaptation in developing
         countries through mechanisms such as additional aid or
         perhaps purchasing carbon credits.

         Emphasis should be placed on reducing fossil fuel based
         emissions as soon as possible. The Zero Carbon Act should

         also provide a framework for transparency and
         accountability around New Zealand's international climate
         finance.



4.Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes

    ÿno.


         Optional comment

         The 2050 target should not be altered in response to
         “economic changes” as this undermines its long-term
         certainty. However, the ability to revise the 2050 target to be

         more ambitious, in light of major changes in scientific
         understanding or international agreements should be
         permitted.




Emissions budgets

5.The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (ie, covering the next 15 years) be in place at
    any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes

    ÿno.


         Optional comment

         I agree with 5-year budgets set 10-15 years in advance, so
         that three are in effect at all times.



6.Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (ie, furthest into the future)?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes, each incoming Government should have the option to review the third budget in the sequence

    ÿyes, the third emissions budget should be able to be changed, but only when the subsequent budget is set

    ÿno, emissions budgets should not be able to be changed.


         Optional comment
         Emissions budgets should not be altered in response to

         “economic changes” as this undermines their long-term
         certainty. However, the ability to revise the 2050 target to be
         more ambitious, in light of major changes in scientific

         understanding or international agreements should be
         permitted.
7.Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific range under

    exceptional circumstances?

    Pick one:
    ÿyes

    ÿno.


         Optional comment

         Emissions budgets should not be altered in response to
         “economic changes” as this undermines their long-term

         certainty. However, the ability to revise the 2050 target to be
         more ambitious, in light of major changes in scientific
         understanding or international agreements should be

         permitted.


8.Do you agree with the considerations we propose that the Government and the Climate Change Commission take into

    account when advising on and setting budgets?

    Pick one:
    ÿyes

    ÿno.



         Optional comment
         I agree that the Government and the Climate Commission

         should take the following factors into consideration when
         advising on and setting budgets:

         • scientific knowledge regarding climate change
         • technology relevant to climate change

         • economic circumstances and the likely impact of a
         decision on the

         economy, as well as the competitiveness of particular sectors
         of the economy

         • fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision
         on taxation, public spending and public borrowing

         • social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on
         fuel poverty

         • energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy
         supplies and

         the carbon and energy intensity of the economy.
         We also need to consider our obligations under Te Tiriti o

         Waitangi as well as Fairness (intergenerational justice and a
         just transition), cost-effectiveness, comprehensiveness and
         environmental sustainability.




Government response

9.Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the emissions
    budgets?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes

    ÿno.


         Optional comment

         We must learn from the mistakes of the UK's Climate Change
         Act and specify a strict time frame for producing a plan.



10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For example, who
    do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?


         Comment

         The Government’s policy plans to meet emission budgets
         should be comprehensive, fair, cost-effective,
         environmentally sustainable, and reflect a commitment to Te

         Tiriti o Waitangi.
         In setting plans to meet the emissions budgets, the

         government should be:
           ·consulting and working with Local Government to

               encourage them to mitigate and adapt to climate
               change

           ·considering the relative consumption emissions and
               other environmental impacts when weighing up
                mitigation and adaptation measures e.g. the emissions

                cost of producing electric cars overseas
              considering the impact of its adaption and mitigation

                measures on other planetary boundaries i.e.
                biodiversity, nutrient pollution.

              taking into account New Zealand’s contribution to
                international aviation and maritime emissions.

              making sure they're based on the best science available

              ensuring that they deliver fair outcomes for Kiwis
              reflecting the principle of a Just Transition for workers

              honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi

              being environmentally sustainable, especially for New
                Zealand's unique native plants and animals

              maximising the impact of money spent and being cost-
                effective

              encouraging innovation

              unlocking economic opportunities for New Zealanders,
                such as in renewable energy

              honouring our international commitments, including
                under the Paris Agreement

              consulting people who may be economically affected, like
                farmers or businesses

              consulting tangata whenua

              consulting communities already facing the physical
                impacts of climate change




Climate Change Commission

11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand’s progress
    towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?

    Pick one:

    ÿ yes

    ÿ no.



          Optional comment
          I believe that the Commission should not be a decision-making

          body. I support the Climate Commission having two functions 1.
          Providing expert advice and 2. Monitoring our progress and
          holding the government account.

          It should not be a decision-making body as it would lead to a
          lack of democratic accountability, it becoming a comprised

          watch dog and that it would not have the ability to implement
          comprehensive policy plans.



12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions Trading
    Scheme (NZ ETS)?

    Pick one:

    ÿ advising the Government on policy settings in the NZ ETS

    ÿ makes decisions itself, in respect of the number of units available in the NZ ETS.



          Optional comment
          The Commission should advise the Government on policy

          settings in the NZ ETS. It should not make decisions itself with
          respect to the number of units available in the NZ ETS, or its
          implementation.



13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and desirable

    expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?

    Pick one:

    ÿ yes

    ÿ no.


          Optional comment

          I agree with the following collective expertise:
          • climate change policy (including emissions trading)

          • resource economics and impacts (including social impacts,
          labour markets and distribution)

          • te Tiriti o Waitangi, te reo me ona tikanga Māori and Māori
        interests

        • climate and environmental science including mātauranga
        Māori

        • experience with addressing adaptation challenges like
        planning, insurance and local government

        • risk management

        • engineering and/or infrastructure
        • community engagement and communications.

        • business competitiveness

        • knowledge of the public and private innovation and
        technology development system.

        I also think expertise in public health is also important.



Adapting to the impacts of climate change

14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes

    ÿno



        Optional comment
        This may require a separate adaptation sub-committee
        within the Climate Commission.



15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree with the

    proposed functions?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes
    ÿno.



        Optional comment
        I agree with the proposed functions below:

        • a national climate change risk assessment

        • a national adaptation plan
        • regular review of progress towards implementing the

        national adaptation plan
        • an adaptation reporting power

        Care will need to be taken in managing the interaction
        between national and local government roles.



16. Should we explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some organisations share
    information on their exposure to climate change risks?

    Pick one:

    ÿyes

    ÿno.



        Optional comment
        Yes. This would let the government and the public know about

        the risks to public and other infrastructure, and make these
        organisations better informed about the risks they face.

17. Do you have any other comments you’d like to make?


        Optional comment
