Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 15/07/2018 10:59 AM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:






























Is there anything you'd like to add?
The NZ Government already knows very clearly that half of NZ emissions are from animal agriculture, with the

biggest being dairy. This must be where the changes occur first.
Help for those involved in this whole sector to transition to alternative ag. or other industries is essential and will
have the biggest positive impact on our environment.
The Independant Climate Change Commission is an absolute must, with the panel being made to fully disclose their
background and ties or associations with any industry to ensure there are unbiased influences, and no biased

protections of business sectors.
This opportunity to put in place real and meaningful legislation to address our emissions and provide my children,
grandchildren, family, friends and community with a planet which will continue to be able to support their existence
is of huge importance to me.
As an aside, encouraging the New Zealand human population to substantially increase their consumption of plant

based foods will improve health outcomes and significantly reduce the growing burden on the sick care sector.
We only have one planet to call home and are currently not taking great care of it. There is no planet B

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting

Yes

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No
If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No


Submitted on Sun 15 Jul 2018
