Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 16/07/2018 01:18 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by making sure food production is secure. Making New
Zealand farmers less competitive and shifting food production to countries that are much less efficient by reducing
cow numbers here will actually add to the net green house gases in the atmosphere and lead to more warming not
less. I therefore think option 1 should be pursued at this time. There should be a review every ten years so new

information can be taken into account and a new position taken if appropriate - allowing for efficient food
production as mentioned above. I support a net-zero target of 2050. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change mentions methane in tackling climate change and the Paris accord specifically refers to the protection of
food production to enable wider food security. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to put our efficient food production at risk. We have the lowest carbon foot print already in food production and

there is heavy investment in making continual improvement so we can continue to lead having the lowest footprint
world wide. I support the establishment of a Climate Commission, to help inform on policy recommendations.
Climate change is a challenge facing humanity, As is good food security. Goal 2 of the 2030 agenda for sustainable
development by the United Nations is zero world hunger. This was voted on by 193 countries in 2015. The world
needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic world hunger and the effects of climate

change and its effects on food production. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition.
New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious future generations. Sticking to
reducing our Co2 production will go a huge way to helping without limiting such a precious resource of food itself.
Yours sincerely, K S Milne
