Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 16/07/2018 03:28 PM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. But why does New Zealand and the World find

ourselves in this position. We are in this position because we are strongly conditioned by an apparent progressive
view of life or time as linear based on biological evolution of our physical existence proceeding from past into
future, and the incessant drive to survive and enhance lifestyles by way of a dominantly competitiveness and no
limits to growth thinking. We are overdue reigning in destructive Progressive Economic thinking and replacing

these with thinking that recognises ecological footprint limits, such as Steady State Economy (Herman Daly). Such a
change does not mean we stagnate innovation and technological advancement. Particularly if we look at how we
view the world and how we live in it - a psychological paradigm shift which can make us more aware of our sense of
unity, and true creativity versus just creating or destroying a future which is increasingly based on reacting, and
forever problem solving. Now, being in my submission more specific to legally binding climate law, this must be fair,

ambitious and consistent with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all
sectors. The legislation should establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2
degrees warming, that would lock in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions.
That is not acceptable. To give us the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of
the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040

with the majority of cuts occurring over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law,
consistent with international climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear
that methane reduction is critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable
for New Zealand’s climate law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I
support the establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate

Commission should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore.
Climate budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered
by government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from
the Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s

targets must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon
credits or an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-
party agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge
facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to
address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid

catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with
big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future
generations. However, without addressing how people see the world and live in it, a psychological shift, our recent
arriving and future generations will only lurch toward coping with even greater threats to survival. To quote David
Whyte (UK Writer), "We lie today at a remarkable threshold: for the first time in the histories of the West we have

two generations in the developed world who have a real breathing space from the last vestiges of feudalism, from
the last vestiges of war, and from the necessities of war. Also, a breathing space from their parental religious
institutions. Since WWII our organisations and our approaches to work has necessarily been a product of military
mobilisation. Today….perhaps our future will come from the individual imaginations in conversation with all other
individual imaginations. A mobilisation of something that exists at the edges between things. There is an

increasingly large population of youth today moving out of rationalism and towards a spirituality independent of
religions, dogmas, and authorities. But there is also the other youth who continue to heal early to corporate life.
These youth have in a way joined the older generation and have unconsciously disenfranchised themselves from
any immediate re-imagining of our collective future. The age of old complacencies, old certainties, and old loyalties
is over. Facts and reason are but a choice in a number of ways of looking at the world. Science is seen to have its

own inbuilt bias and its own myopia, hemmed in as it is by the grant-awarding portion of a Universe that it intends
to understand. But youth today do not see doubt as a bad thing. Uncertainty is a kind of breathing space from the
ironbound waters of the past." Yours sincerely, Adrian Daly
