Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 16/07/2018 04:15 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:























Is there anything you'd like to add?
The Government should have to publicly respond and provide the reasons when it differs from the Climate Change
Commission's advice. The Commission should also act as an independent watchdog so we are all aware of how we

are tracking.

The Zero Carbon bill should cover adapting to the impacts of climate change so that people have assistance to
make the changes that they / we, will have to make. This should include financial assistance to cover possible
effects on lower income earners as well as industry and agriculture.


To enable us to achieve these Zero targets, there should be emissions budgets to set out a plan over a 5 year
period.

I am not sure that we as a country will be able to sustain the effects and impacts that dairy herds are having. This

has all been within my lifetime as when I was a child, we had more sheep and they didn't seem to have as much
affect on our landscape (McKenzie Basin for example) as dairying. There must be other more sustainable ways we
can make product to export that don't cause as much damage as farming does. I would dread to think that my 9
month old grandson and all the others who are too young to have any influence, will not be able to enjoy our forests
(Remutaka, Kepler, Rakiura) as his mum and I have done.


It is vital that the Government acts now with written support and commitment from other political parties so that
we have stability and change regardless of which political party is in power.

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public

posting
Yes

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest

No
If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No



Submitted on Mon 16 Jul 2018
