Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 17/07/2018 10:02 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. The law must be fair, ambitious and consistent

with the climate science and international frameworks by including all gases and all sectors. The legislation should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We should not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock
in devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant extinctions. That is not acceptable. To give us
the best possibility of achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid

cuts in all greenhouse gases beginning now. I support a net-zero target of 2040 with the majority of cuts occurring
over the next decade. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I support the establishment of a

Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission should have
statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate budgets should
be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by government within the
prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the Commission should be
just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets must be achieved by

actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or an over-reliance on
forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party agreement should not be
achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity. It would be
wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to address the problem is strong law.
As well we must urgently look at the bigger picture. The total sum of Non Renewable Natural Resources as existing

at 1800 have since been consumed at an exponentially increasing rate. We have lass than 25% left and are
consuming them at a rate soon to reduce as we have used up most of the available NRNRs. This is not taken into
account in current economic studies and business practices not government planning for our future. Harvesting
and consuming energy both use Non Renewable Natural Resources. The rate at which we consume energy directly

tracks the rate of consumption of NRNR. The only answer is to use less energy. To have a future we need to
redesign how we live. Transport has to be minimalised. Food grown locally not transported or imported is a first
step and employment close to dwelling is an important pattern. Extinguishing out wasteful consumption of NRNRs
is vital. Our present path has been well explored and described. Data shows very little harvesting of NRNRs will be
possible within 20 years. Climate shift is a result of our stupid use of NRNRs. But it is the stripping and wasteful

exploitation of NRNRs that will cause collapse of human civilisation long before climate shift. The world needs
pathways to transformational change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming. This is the scale of the challenge.
The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New Zealand must be bold and pass strong
law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. We must consume much less and make locally
unprocessed food a priority. Yours sincerely, Bob Waters
