Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Sonia Bauerfeind

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 17/07/2018 05:10 PM

Dear Madam / Sir

                          Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Sonia Bauerfeind

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because Dear Sir/Madam


I would like to take this opportunity to add my agreement to NZ creating a Zero Carbon Bill because I really would
like the human race to continue and if we continue the way we are then I am afraid that the human race will
eventually die out. I am a grandmother now and so it would be easy to say that it is "Not my problem" and "There is
nothing I can do" but I don't think this is a good stance to take especially as I have my grandchildren and their
grandchildren to consider.


As well as the items listed below, I think education is important. A lot of people do not understand the nature of the
problem or how big it is. I think a programme in schools and a programme in communities to educate people is a
serious need.


2050 target

The Zero Carbon Act should set a 2050 target in law now. A safe climate future is too important to wait.

We need the most ambitious target: net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases, not just some.


However, even if the government is unable to set a target across all gases, it should set a target of net zero long-
lived gases by 2050 and mandate the Climate Commission to recommend or set a 2050 target for short-lived gases.


The other options suggested, like merely aiming to stabilise short-lived gases or ignoring them altogether would
both undercut the 'zero' part of the Zero Carbon Act and risks international criticism.

NZ should cut emissions here (including by planting more forests) in New Zealand, not by buying overseas credits.
Zero should mean zero. We should be taking care of our own part of the world and lead by example and hopefully in

the future be able to help other countries.

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?

The 2050 target should not be able to be weakened, but only strengthened. This 'no backsliding' approach is

consistent with the spirit of the Paris Agreement.

Emissions budgets

Emissions budgets under the Zero Carbon Act should cover five year periods and be set three budgets in advance.

This will provide long-term certainty.

The NZ government will need to consider:
- scientific knowledge regarding climate change
- technology relevant to climate change

- social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on fuel poverty
- energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy supplies and the carbon and energy intensity of the
economy
- economic circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on the economy, as well as the competitiveness of

particular sectors of the economy
- fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and public borrowing

Government response




Climate Change Commission




Adapting to the impact of climate change




An extra point to consider - climate finance
Conclusion

Thank you for making the existence of ourselves and our planet high on your list of priorities.


Yours faithfully

Sonia Bauerfeind
