Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 17/07/2018 09:10 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Sue and Nev


Last Name
Sinclair























Is there anything you'd like to add?
- Aircraft emissions constitute a major contributor to climate change, significant disincentives to air travel should

be initiated.
-Organic farming techniques (wholistic grazing management in particular and minimal cultivation) which
encourages carbon sequestration should be incentivised.
-Environmental degradation and emission impact should be included in the cost of articles to give a true economic
impression of their production.

-development of rail freight to minimize road/trucking emissions, and sea freight and passenger shipping between
major NZ ports and our trading partners to minimize air transport.
-Capture and reuse or neutralisation of fumigants such as methyl bromide.
-Promote lower consumption of short-life, non-reusable goods and incentivise reduced packaging.
-Forestry waste which is an environmental and economic issue should be utilized to produce electricity in small

scale local energy generation facilities.
-Frugality and knowing when "enough is enough" needs to be rewarded with public recognition. Medals for
environmental heroism!

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public

posting
No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest

No
If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No



Submitted on Tue 17 Jul 2018
