Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Mihirang Vanessa Fleming

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 18/07/2018 05:10 AM

Dear Madam / Sir

                     Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Mihirang Vanessa Fleming

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because I believe in the future of our
children, I believe in the future of the health and well being of all things Kiwi, including all our native species and

being responsible as kaitiaki. I believe in educating all Kiwi's of the wisdom and knowledge and understanding that
our future is inter-dependant on a healthy natural environment that maintains Natures symbiocity for our natural
environment to survive and thrive.

2050 target


Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation? (In legislation
now, or later via the Climate Commission?)

At the very least, the Zero Carbon Act should set a 2030 target in law now. Our children will have no future if an act

aims for zero carbon emissions for 32 years time. Setting the suggested target to 2050 will be TOO LATE! A safe
climate future for the survival of our future generations is too important to wait.

Q2. Which is the best 2030 target for New Zealand? (Which emissions should be covered and how?)


We need to think outside of the box, and reach well beyond the most aggressive targets: net zero emissions across
all greenhouse gases, not just some. We also need to look at the reversal of greenhouse emissions, not just zero
emissions and not just the protection of natural environments that are left. We also need to be creating and
investing in programs that educate all New Zealanders towards having a better relationship with Nature in order

to restore and renew the symbiotic environments where all our Native species will thrive and survive and to include
ourselves as part of our environment. We cannot forget that we as people are part of Nature.

The other options suggested, like merely aiming to stabilise short-lived gases or ignoring them altogether would
both undercut the 'zero' part of the Zero Carbon Act and risks the future of our children.


Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets? (Within New Zealand, or with international trading too?)

By cutting and reversing emissions here (including by planting more Native forests and protecting and
replenishing our Oceans and water ways) in New Zealand, not by buying overseas credits. Zero should mean zero.

Carbon credits should be abolished all together, corporations trading Nature as a commodity with no international
regulations and doing trade with countries like the Ukraine should be stopped. Using Nature as a tool for financial
monopolies that have no realistic outcomes is not going to help the future of zero emissions.

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2030 target to be revised if circumstances change?


A 2030 target should not be able to be weakened, but only strengthened. This 'no backsliding' approach is
consistent with the spirit of the Paris Agreement.

Emissions budgets


Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be
in place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?


I don't believe there should be any carbon trading or budgets, there needs to be a better solution to reverse our
greenhouse gases and we as a country could lead the way of this into the future. We do not need to depend on
international agreements to make a positive change for the future. We can do more, much more to save our Natural
environment which is the only environment that we as humans can live in.


Q6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?

Absolutely not. Emissions budgets should be only be changed due to major changes in scientific understanding,
not political or economic developments. The same 'no backsliding' principle should apply as for a 2030 target.
Again - abolish 'emission budgets' and create an even better plan to move forward to reverse the current climate

change cycle. We can do this, we just need to think and act outside of the political and economic stance and put
Nature first.

Q7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific
range under exceptional circumstances?


No, for the same reasons as in my answer to Q6.

Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that the Government and the Climate Commission will need to
take into account when advising on and setting budgets?

Yes, I agree that they will need to consider:

- scientific knowledge regarding climate change
- iwi and hapu knowledge regarding local environments and tikanga Māori that supports the inclusion of Nature as
having all the rights of personage.
- technology relevant to climate change

- energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy supplies and the carbon and energy intensity of the
economy
- fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and public borrowing

Government response


Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the
emissions budgets?

Yes, the Act should set fixed deadlines, so we don't repeat the mistakes of the UK Climate Change Act 2008, which

didn't include deadlines for making these plans.

Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For
example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?


In setting plans to meet the emissions budgets, the government should be:
- making sure they're based on the best science available
- ensuring that they deliver fair outcomes for Kiwis
- reflecting the principle of a Just Transition for workers and re-educating Kiwi's in jobs that support sustainable

environmental industries.
- honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi
- being environmentally sustainable, especially for New Zealand's unique native plants and animals
- maximising the impact of money spent and being cost-effective
- encouraging innovation

- unlocking economic opportunities for New Zealanders, such as in renewable energy and environmental
sustainability education programs in schools and the workforce.
- honouring our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement and doing more than this to go
beyond the globally unsustainable limit of the Paris Agreement.
- consulting people who may be economically affected, like farmers or businesses and investing in their re-

education into skills and abilities for these Kiwi's to be able to move these industries quickly into environmentally
sustainable practices, jobs and industries.
- consulting tangata whenua
- consulting young people, who'll live to see more of the impact of climate change and creating programs for our
youth to be educated in environmental sustainability.

- consulting communities already facing the physical impacts of climate change

Climate Change Commission

Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's

progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?

Yes, I do. The Commission should provide expert independent advice, but not be a decision-maker.


Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions
Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)? (Should it provide advice, or make decisions too?)

The Commission should advise the government on policy around the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme


Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and
desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?

I agree that members of the Climate Commission should have expertise in:


- climate and environmental science including mātauranga Māori
- climate change policy (including emissions trading)
- te Tiriti o Waitangi, te reo me ona tikanga Māori (Māori language, culture, and philosophy) and Māori interests
- knowledge of the public and private innovation and technology development system
- risk management

- resource economics and impacts (including labour markets and distribution)
- experience with addressing adaptation challenges like planning, insurance and local government
- engineering and/or infrastructure
- community engagement and communications

- business competitiveness

In addition, they should have expertise in:
- expertise in public health
- understanding of our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement

- understanding of the social impacts of climate change and/or government policy
- knowledge of principles of equity and a Just Transition

Adapting to the impact of climate change


Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

Yes. There might need to be a separate adaptation sub-committee of the Commission, as in the UK.


Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree
with the proposed functions?

Yes, the Zero Carbon Act should require:


- a national climate change risk assessment
- a national adaptation plan
- regular reviews of progress towards implementing the national adaptation plan
- an adaptation reporting power


Care will need to be taken in managing the interaction between national and local government roles.

Q16. Should the Government explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some
organisations share information on their exposure to climate change risks?


Yes. This would let the government and the public know about the risks to public and other infrastructure, and
make these organisations better informed about the risks they face.


An extra point to consider - climate finance

The Zero Carbon Act should also provide a framework for transparency and accountability around New Zealand's
international climate finance.


Conclusion

Thank you for the chance to submit on the Zero Carbon Bill. I'm excited to have the chance to contribute to
maximising its impact. Together, it's possible to unlock a safe climate future for all Kiwis.


I truly believe that we can do better as Kiwi's, and I believe that the Zero Carbon Bill is not enough. We are known
for our innovation, the beauty of our Natural environment and the pride we take in it's protection. We must not
allow this to be an economic or political Act but rather a human one where we put our own human Nature in
alignment with Nature herself.


Yours faithfully

Mihirang Vanessa Fleming
