Subject: Submission on Zero Carbon Bill consultation

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 18/07/2018 06:26 PM

Hi. Submission below:


Submissions form

We seek your feedback on the specific proposals in the Zero Carbon Bill.

Either email this submission to ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz  (Microsoft Word document (2003 or later) or PDF) or post to Ministry
for the Environment, PO Box 10362, Wellington, 6143.

Publishing and releasing submissions

All or part of any written submission (including names of submitters) may be published on the Ministry for the Environment’s website,
www.mfe.govt.nz. Unless you clearly specify otherwise in your submission, the Ministry will consider that you have consented to
website posting of both your submission and your name.

Contents of submissions may be released to the public under the Official Information Act 1982 following requests to the Ministry for
the Environment (including via email). Please advise if you have any objection to the release of any information contained in a
submission, including commercially sensitive information, and in particular which part(s) you consider should be withheld, together

with the reason(s) for withholding the information. We will take into account all such objections when responding to requests for
copies of, and information on, submissions to this document under the Official Information Act.

The Privacy Act 1993 applies certain principles about the collection, use and disclosure of information about individuals by various
agencies, including the Ministry for the Environment. It governs access by individuals to information about themselves held by
agencies. Any personal information you supply to the Ministry in the course of making a submission will be used by the Ministry only in
relation to the matters covered by this document. Please clearly indicate in your submission if you do not wish your name to be

included in any summary of submissions that the Ministry may publish.

Personal / organisation details

You must provide either a company name or given name(s)

Company name
Given names Thomas Frederick John

Surname Taylor

Contact person Tom Taylor









Submitter type, pick one:

      X Individual

     NGO

     Business / Industry

     Local Government
     Central Government

     Iwi / Māori

     University

     Research Institute
     School

     Community Group

     Unspecified / Other

2050 target
  1.  What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation?

    Pick one:

     X the Government sets 2050 targets in legislation now. Targets should be specific to each green-house gas.
     the Government sets a goal to reach net zero emissions by the second half of the century, and the Climate
     Change Commission advises on the specific target for the Government to set later.



          Optional comment
          Introductory note: The PCE's “A Zero Carbon Act for New Zealand:
          Revisiting Stepping Stones to Paris and Beyond” is the most useful

          document I've found as it is recent and focussed on draft
          considerations for this Bill. I won't reiterate the reasons for a
           robust Act as you will be familiar with them already. I will,

           however, outline my views here before expanding on them
           (briefly) in the individual sections:

               ·The Act should be output focussed not process focussed like
                   the RMA.

               ·The Act should include legal 'net zero' targets for all green
                   house gases.

               ·Emission budgets are set with clear, transparent mechanisms
                   for meeting them.

               ·Any changes to targets or emission budgets must be
                   scientifically justified.

               ·The Climate Commission should havr advisory powers but also
                   power to hold government to account The Commission to
                   be free of government interference and adequately
                                                                                  nd
                   resourced in terms of personnel, expertise and finance (2
                   option in Table 6).

               ·The Act must include adaptation via a National Adaptation
                   Plan.

               ·Transparent tracking of emission budgets should be included
                   with government accountability for failure to deliver.

               ·Mitigation and adaptation to be financed by central
                   government.

           The targets should be clearly defined in simple language that the
           eponymous 'man (person) on the Clapham omnibus' would
           understand. The targets must be enshrined in law and not the

           aspirational pseudo-targets that we've had in the past and that
           can be changed at will.


If the Government sets a 2050 target now, which is the best target for New Zealand?

    Pick one:

      net zero carbon dioxide: Reducing net carbon dioxide emissions to zero by 2050


       X net zero long-lived gases and stabilised short-lived gases: Long-lived gases to net zero by 2050, while
       also stabilising short-lived gases


       net zero emissions: Net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases by 2050.



           Optional comment
           Once shortlived gases have been stabilised then a 'sinking lid'

           approach should be adopted to get levels as low as possible.


How should New Zealand meet its targets?

    Pick one:

      domestic emissions reductions only (including from new forest planting)


       X domestic emissions reductions (including from new forest planting) and using some emissions reductions
       from overseas (international carbon units) that have strong environmental safeguards.



           Optional comment

           Buying carbon credits should be the last resort and then only if
           they are proven to represent the genuine removal or replacement
           of CO  2r CO -e2uivalent emissions so we don't get ripped off

           with dodgy, fake 'hot air' credits. Note that CO -eq2ivalent is not a
           very good metric in many ways and may be subject to change as

           our understanding improves.


Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?

    Pick one:


       X yes

      no.



           Optional comment
           The target could be brought forward but change could not, and
           should not, be used as a 'get out of jail free' card to avoid hard

           decisions and ignore the science. Any change must be
           transparent, clearly explained and justified to the people of NZ.


Emissions budgets
The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (ie, covering the next 15 years) be in

   place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?
   Pick one:

     X yes

     no.


          Optional comment

          The PCE suggested a 6 year period as being more appropriate to
          our electoral cycle. Either is OK with me. I strongly support having
          3 emission budgets in place at any given time to give certainty for
          planning and implementation purposes. Associated with the
          budgets should be transitional pathways. Any changes should be
          justified.



Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (ie, furthest into the future)?
   Pick one:

     yes, each incoming Government should have the option to review the third budget in the sequence


      X yes, the third emissions budget should be able to be changed, but only when the subsequent budget is set
     no, emissions budgets should not be able to be changed.



          Optional comment
          Again, any change must be justified.


Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific range

   under exceptional circumstances?

   Pick one:
     X yes

     no.


          Optional comment

          See comment above.


Do you agree with the considerations we propose that the Government and the Climate Change Commission take
   into account when advising on and setting budgets?

   Pick one:

     X yes
     no.



          Optional comment
          I have concerns that “economic circumstances and, in particular,
          the likely impact of the decision on the economy and the
          competitiveness of particular sectors of the economy” may lead

          to special pleading from those who see themselves as being
          adversely affected. Could the Climate Leaders Coalition which is
          aiming at a 2 C rise, not “well below 2 C”, be a potential problem
          in the future in this context if it has different objectives to those in

          the proposed Bill or the Act as assented?


Government response

Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the
   emissions budgets?

   Pick one:

     X yes
     no.



          Optional comment
          Without this performance tracking would be difficult as the UK has
          found.



What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For example,
   who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?


          Comment
           Note that these are not in ranked order:

              ·Coordination between government departments (an uprated
                  'Transition Hub' in the Department for the Environment
                  would accomplish this providing it has the appropriate remit

                  and resources).
              ·Coordination with local authorities.

              ·Advice from the Commission.
              ·Scientific understanding of climate change and the sources,

                  sinks and management of green house gases and the
                  economic and social impacts. The economic and social
                  impacts of ineffective action are already becoming clear
                  with extreme weather events.

              ·NGOs, particularly those with a social focus.

              ·Business.


Climate Change Commission

The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand’s

    progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?

    Pick one:

       X yes

      no.


           Optional comment




What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions
    Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)?

    Pick one:

      X advising the Government on policy settings in the NZ ETS
      makes decisions itself, in respect of the number of units available in the NZ ETS.



           Optional comment
           The ETS has proven a 'dodgy' tool so I would prefer a Carbon Tax
           which is more transparent and not so easy to game. However, the

           Commission can help keep the government honest!


The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and desirable
    expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?

    Pick one:

      X yes

      no.


           Optional comment

        This may require recruiting from overseas.


Adapting to the impacts of climate change

Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

    Pick one:

      X yes
      no



           Optional comment

           This is an important function as currently every event is treated as
           a one-off, local 'coincidence' and they are causing people and local
           authorities difficulties (as we've found in Nelson and surrounding
           areas and others are finding now with the latest flooding). A

           coordinated, centrally funded National Adaptation Plan is essential.


The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree with
    the proposed functions?

    Pick one:

      X yes

      no.
         Optional comment

         We can't adapt without information and reporting needs to be
         mandatory.


Should we explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some organisations share
   information on their exposure to climate change risks?

   Pick one:


      X yes

     no.


         Optional comment
         This would need to be transparent and using common criteria to

         avoid the system being gamed.


Cheers.
Tom Taylor
Sent from Mail for Windows 10
