Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Carl Scott

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 18/07/2018 08:19 PM

Dear Madam / Sir

                              Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Carl Scott

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because For the first time I am aware of, a
NZ government has had the wisdom to actually listen to what the people of this country have to say on this most

critical matter.

2050 target

Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation? (In legislation

now, or later via the Climate Commission?)

The government need to set a 'Zero emissions by 2050' target in law now. There is no benefit or in delaying, and no
justification for doing so.


Q2. Which is the best 2050 target for New Zealand? (Which emissions should be covered and how?)

We need the most ambitious target possible. All greenhouse gas emissions must be addressed.

We need to address a wide range of issues. Promoting and subsidising green technologies will unquestionably be

part of the change. But it will not be enough to merely transition to greener technologies alone. We need to
cultivate a culture of reducing our consumerism in general. The 'reduce' part of the 'reduce, reuse, recycle' mantra
needs to be given far greater emphasis.


Urgent change is needed. Half measures will not suffice. The economy cannot be considered more important than
ecology, ecosystems, ethics, or the Earth!

One of the key strategies for achieving our targets will be a dramatic change in how we produce food. It will be
utterly essential to transition as rapidly as is possible from animal agriculture to horticulture and cropping. The

2006 UN Food and Agriculture report "Livestock's Long Shadow" has essentially said that. Indeed, the very the tile
of that report says it all. The 2018 academic report from Oxford University, which was published in prestigious
'Science' magazine has also told us that a plant-based/vegan diet is “the single biggest way to reduce your impact
on planet Earth”.


Healthy, affordable, and delicious plant-based alternatives to traditional animal foods already exist, and many NZ-
ers (like me) thrive on a plant-based diet.

It will undoubtedly be a challenge to make this tradition. One good start would be to remove subsidies from animal
agriculture enterprises, and provide subsidies to the cropping and horticulture sectors. Additional subsidies could

be provided to farmers who are willing to convert from raising animals, to growing crops. Farmers will also need to
be supported with educational programs, and industry research into what key plant crops will be needed by
consumers, and will be profitable for farmers.

Educating consumers and working to create a societal 'culture change' will also be essential. Fortunately, the

heath, environmental, and animal welfare problems inherent in farming animals, as well as the many benefits of
plant-based eating, are not too difficult a message to 'sell'!

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets? (Within New Zealand, or with international trading too?)


By cutting emissions here in New Zealand. Zero should mean zero, and we have an opportunity to lead the way. We
have been world leaders in creating change in the past, and we can be again.

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?


The 2050 target should not be able to be weakened, but only strengthened.

Emissions budgets


Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be
in place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?

Yes. Emissions budgets under the Zero Carbon Act should cover five year periods and be set three budgets in
advance. This will provide long-term certainty.


Q6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?

No. Emissions budgets should be only be changed due to major changes in scientific understanding, not political or
economic developments.

Q7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific

range under exceptional circumstances?

No.


Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that the Government and the Climate Commission will need to
take into account when advising on and setting budgets?

Yes, I agree that they will need to consider:
- scientific knowledge regarding climate change

- technology relevant to climate change
- social circumstances
- energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy supplies and the carbon and energy intensity of the
economy
- economic circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on the economy, as well as the competitiveness of

particular sectors of the economy
- fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and public borrowing

Government response


Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the
emissions budgets?

Yes, the Act should set fixed deadlines, so we don't repeat the mistakes of the UK Climate Change Act 2008, which

didn't include deadlines for making these plans.

Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For
example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?


In setting plans to meet the emissions budgets, the government should be:
- making sure they're based on the best science available
- ensuring that they deliver fair outcomes for Kiwis
- reflecting the principle of a Just Transition for workers
- honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi

- being environmentally sustainable, especially for New Zealand's unique native plants and animals
- maximising the impact of money spent and being cost-effective
- encouraging innovation
- unlocking economic opportunities for New Zealanders, such as in renewable energy
- honouring our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement

- consulting people who may be economically affected, like farmers or businesses
- consulting tangata whenua
- consulting young people, who'll live to see more of the impact of climate change
- consulting communities already facing the physical impacts of climate change


Climate Change Commission

Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's
progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?


Yes, I do. The Commission should provide expert independent advice, but not be a decision-maker.

Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions
Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)? (Should it provide advice, or make decisions too?)


The Commission should advise the government on policy around the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme.

Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and
desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?


I agree that members of the Climate Commission should have expertise in:

- climate and environmental science including mātauranga Māori
- climate change policy (including emissions trading)

- te Tiriti o Waitangi, te reo me ona tikanga Māori (Māori language, culture, and philosophy) and Māori interests
- knowledge of the public and private innovation and technology development system
- risk management
- resource economics and impacts (including labour markets and distribution)

- experience with addressing adaptation challenges like planning, insurance and local government
- engineering and/or infrastructure
- community engagement and communications
- business competitiveness


In addition, they should have expertise in:
- expertise in public health
- understanding of our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement
- understanding of the social impacts of climate change and/or government policy

- knowledge of principles of equity and a Just Transition

It is of critical importance that members of the Committee do not have any conflict of interest, ties or proximity of
any kind with industries notorious for their greenhouse gas emissions, in particular animal agriculture and energy.


The committee candidates:
- should not be working or having worked with, consulted for, or received money (as individuals or organisations)
from, the energy or animal agriculture sector (among others)
- should not be contributing of having contributed to these industries interests

- should not be otherwise biased in their favour, or influenced by their positions
- should be strictly excluded as candidates for the Committee.

Candidates should go through a strict and independent selection process. They should pledge to not have any
such ties or biases or history with relevant GHG-emitting industry sectors, and practice full disclosure of any

conflict of interest with industry. Given New Zealand's history with conflict of interest, this applies first and
foremost to the animal agriculture sector.

Adapting to the impact of climate change


Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

Yes. There might need to be a separate adaptation sub-committee of the Commission, as in the UK.


Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree
with the proposed functions?

Yes, the Zero Carbon Act should require:


- a national climate change risk assessment
- a national adaptation plan
- regular reviews of progress towards implementing the national adaptation plan
- an adaptation reporting power


Care will need to be taken in managing the interaction between national and local government roles.

Q16. Should the Government explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some
organisations share information on their exposure to climate change risks?


Yes. This would let the government and the public know about the risks to public and other infrastructure, and
make these organisations better informed about the risks they face.

An extra point to consider - climate finance


The Zero Carbon Act should also provide a framework for transparency and accountability around New Zealand's
international climate finance.

Conclusion


Thank you for the chance to submit on the Zero Carbon Bill. I sincerely hope that this government will take the
matter of climate change seriously. A thriving economy is of no use on a planet in severe turmoil due to extreme
weather patterns, rising sea levels, and other climate change related problems.


Yours faithfully,

Carl Scott
