Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Malcolm Francis

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 18/07/2018 10:22 PM

Dear Madam / Sir

                           Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Malcolm Francis

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because Climate change is real and scary.
The pace of change is accelerating and we aren't doing enough to stop the carbon dioxide and methane emissions

that are causing it. Positive feedback loops mean that we will soon have runaway, uncontrollable change unless we
act immediately. Already it looks like the Arctic will be ice-free in summer within a decade, and Antarctica and our
wonderful glaciers have lost a huge amount of ice. Ocean acidification, sea level rise and the probability and
magnitude of extreme weather events are already hitting us hard. Lags in the system mean that even if we
stabilise emissions now the temperatures will continue to climb - we must act immediately. Our children and

grandchildren will rightly point the finger at us as ask why we didn't do more to stop their inheritance (our planet)
from being degraded and becoming inhospitable.

2050 target


Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation? (In legislation
now, or later via the Climate Commission?)

The Zero Carbon Act needs to set an emissions target NOW and we need to urgently implement the policies and
procedures to make that target a reality. And we need the Act to cover all significant emission sources. Fortunately,

as shown in the Stern Report in the UK (The Economics of Climate Change), it was shown that (a) stopping and
mitigating climate change is cheaper than allowing it to happen, and (b) there are numerous economic gains to be
made from developing the industries and technologies that will be important in a low carbon future (notably
renewable energies, battery technology, developing construction materials and technology that conserve heat and

are energy efficient, development of genetic and other techniques that reduce or eliminate methane emissions
from ruminants)

Q2. Which is the best 2050 target for New Zealand? (Which emissions should be covered and how?)


All significant emission sources, including agriculture and farming.

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets? (Within New Zealand, or with international trading too?)

We should meet our targets within NZ, and assist the rest of the world to do the same by exporting knowledge and

experience and new techniques (e.g. genetic modification of ruminant microorganisms to reduce or eliminate
methane production).

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?


The 2050 target should be regarded as a minimum with no fallback position. We need to meet or better still exceed
our Paris Agreement commitments, and work hard in promoting the same response from other countries. Our
contribution to world greenhouse gases is relatively small in total, but our per capita production is one of the
highest. We need to demonstrate results here so that we can encourage others to do the same without being
hypocrites.


Emissions budgets

Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be

in place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?

Yes. And we need to ensure cross-party support and agreement in Parliament. This issue is far too big to be
derailed by party politics. Politicians are elected to look after us and our environment, and it is time they started
acting for us rather than running policies for short-term (i.e. election cycle) benefit.


Q6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?

No. In fact things should get easier further into the future as new technologies come on stream, and as momentum
builds. The positive feedback loops I mentioned earlier mean that meeting targets is likely to become even more

imperative as time goes on.

Q7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific
range under exceptional circumstances?


No, see above (Q6).

Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that the Government and the Climate Commission will need to
take into account when advising on and setting budgets?
Yes, they seem to cover the main considerations, which are:
- understanding and applying existing and scientific knowledge, and developing new technology for stopping and

reversing climate change
- the likely impact of a decision on fuel poverty, and mitigation of that impact by e.g. investing in new energy
efficient and renewable-based mass public transport systems in all cities
- developing energy policy that conserves energy through reduction in losses and increase in efficiency,

encouraging households to invest in solar panels and providing better mechanisms for self-generated surplus
energy to be fed back into the grid and stored. The current system is a huge disincentive to rationale and sensible
generation and distribution of power.

Government response


Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the
emissions budgets?

Yes, the Act needs fixed deadlines. It would be too easy to let targets slip back without legislated, firm deadlines.


Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For
example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?

In setting plans to meet the emissions budgets, the government should be:

- making sure they are stringent, will meet the Paris Agreement targets, and be based on the best existing science
and be responsive to the new science and technology that will develop
- ensure the protection of New Zealand's unique flora an fauna
- encouraging AND FUNDING scientific and engineering research into developing innovative solutions and

technologies
- treat our response to climate change as an economic opportunity by funding and subsidising activities that will
help us meet our targets, while at the same time generate new or better industries that will make money and
employ people


Climate Change Commission

Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's
progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?


Yes. The Commission should be an independent, objective and accountable organisation that will make publicly
available advice and recommendations to Government. Its outputs must be available to the population and its
recommendations, and Government's response to them, must be transparent.

Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions

Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)? (Should it provide advice, or make decisions too?)

The Commission should advise the government on ETS policy. The ETS is not currently working effectively or at the
level required and needs an urgent and major overhaul to ensure it includes all significant emissions sources, and
that it begins to actual reduce emissions, not just tax people and allow them to continue emitting.


Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and
desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?


The members of the Climate Commission should have expertise in climate, natural, physical, environmental and
hazard sciences; mātauranga Māori; knowledge of best overseas practice for avoiding or mitigating emissions in
crucial areas such as transport, agriculture, and energy; engineering and technology; hazard and risk
management; regional planning for such things as sea level rise, development of low-energy transport systems, and
future-proofing of infrastructure.


Adapting to the impact of climate change

Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?


Possibly. Adapting to climate change is a major task, and may some time to develop legislation for. I'd rather see the
Zero Carbon Act passed and implemented urgently and not have it held up by the major consultation and detail
required to address adaptation.

An extra point to consider - climate finance


Our Pacific neighbours are in dire straits. Through my own visits to many of them, I've seen first-hand some of the
destruction already being caused by sea level rise and the increased incidence of hurricanes and resulting loss or
contamination of water supplies, crops, trees etc. These countries do not have the resources to deal with such

problems, and nor should they since their own contribution to global emissions is absolutely minimal, and we must
help them.

Conclusion


We have a chance to act responsibly, and to minimise the impact of climate change if we act quickly. There are also
economic advantages to be gained if we are intelligent and creative about how we approach this. But we must start
now. The new Bill is a good start, now let's get some momentum going.


Malcolm Francis
