Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 18/07/2018 10:29 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Anne


Last Name
Smith























Is there anything you'd like to add?
Provision for funding of ongoing education on the science of climate change and the possible societal and

environmental consequences of climate change should be provided for within the Act. This education should use
multiple pathways to reach people, stimulate informed debate, and provide a basis for people to evaluate the
ethical issues associated climate change.



I quote "E & T" Volume 13 Issue 5 Tim Fryer page 45. (A magazine produced by a subsidiary of the Institute of
Engineers and Technologies - one of the worlds largest engineering institutions).
" Current CO2 levels are at 0.04%, perilously close to the 0.05% that would cause temperatures to rise sufficiently
for the ice caps to destabilize, potentially causing global flooding. And of course if such levels caused mass
extinctions in the past, they may well do so in the present or the future as well". The silencing of well informed

public debate by lobbyists of the oil and finance industrial complex over the last 40 years has led many persons to
have no real understanding of the science, the interrelated environmental problems and the relationships between
environmental stress, social organisation and ultimately, wars.





Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting

No
I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No


If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No


Submitted on Wed 18 Jul 2018
