Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 19/07/2018 10:56 AM

Dear Minister, I support the passing of legally binding climate law. First, let me say, I voted for the coalition

government and specifically for the Green Party because I wanted strong, clear leadership on climate change. I
cannot state more clearly that my expectations are that this government will take the bold action needed now to
head off the worst impacts of climate change. Watering down action for political convenience will be a major failure
for those who voted for you, and for future generations. Consensus is helpful but not at the expense of real action.

The world is at a cross roads and your courage and leadership is needed. Second to the legislation, it should
establish the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. We will not settle for 2 degrees warming, that would lock in
devastating impacts on Pacific Island states and cause significant instability. To give us the best chance of
achieving no more than 1.5 degrees warming by the end of the century, there must be rapid cuts in all greenhouse
gases beginning immediately. I support a target of net-zero by 2040, with the majority of cuts occur over the next

decade. We must front load the cuts in this and the following decade if we are to have any chance of heading off
run away climate change. I support all greenhouse gases being included in the law, consistent with international
climate frameworks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change makes it clear that methane reduction is
critical to success in tackling climate change. It is politically and scientifically untenable for New Zealand’s climate
law to exclude any gases from our biggest emitting sector - the agricultural sector. I also support a just transition

for farmers. Together we can design a future where we prosper, and don't destroy our planet. I support the
establishment of a Climate Commission, whose role should be to devise binding budgets. The Climate Commission
should have statutory teeth, otherwise it is merely an advisory group that governments could ignore. Climate
budgets should be legally binding and set a bare-minimum ambition, which must be achieved or bettered by
government within the prescribed timeframes. While budgets should be binding, policy recommendations from the

Commission should be just that - recommendations. I support the ‘firewall’ principle, that New Zealand’s targets
must be achieved by actual cuts in our own emissions, and not through the purchase of overseas carbon credits or
an over-reliance on forests as carbon sinks While consensus across political parties is good, any cross-party
agreement should not be achieved at the cost of strong climate law. Climate change is the greatest challenge

facing humanity. It would be wrong to have broad agreement on weak law, when what is urgently needed to
address the problem is strong law. The world needs pathways to change if we are to avoid catastrophic warming.
This is the scale of the challenge. The science is clear: the only way we can succeed is with big ambition. New
Zealand must be bold and pass strong law for the sake of our precious earth and future generations. Yours
sincerely, Jessica Henare
