Subject: Zero Carbon Bill submission

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 19/07/2018 01:06 PM

SUBMISSION ON THE ZERO CARBON BILL SUBMITTER: Chris Peterson,

                    (But this submission will hopefully be retrospectively endorsed by Sustainable Wairarapa Inc
and Wairarapa Forest & Bird at their next meetings). Q1 Support legislation for Net Zero by 2050. While 2050 is the
Paris date we note that several environmental NGOs are pushing for it to be 2040 presumably in recognition of the
importance of doing more at this near end of the timeline as it is the amount (the stock) of, in particular, carbon

dioxide in the atmosphere that is ultimately significant (the Carbon Budget concept). Q2 We probably go for Option
2 but find it difficult to decide between 2 and 3 and note that even environmental groups are somewhat divided on
this point (eg Jeanette Fitzsimmons is for 2, Gen Zero for 3). Maybe the wording isn't as clear as it might be?. To
me/us it all perhaps hinges around at just what level methane is to be stabilized at and whether there are to be
different accounting categories for the long and short-lived gases - such as limiting the offsetting of methane to

short-term rotation commercial forests and longterm gases to permanent, mostly native, forests. We support the
"two basket" approach but with the proviso that this shouldn't necessaryly mean stabilizing the methane at or near
its current level. Methane is responsible, we understand, for a third of the climate warming in NZ and 25%
worldwide and so presumably it will be a considerable determinant of the current rate of SLR due to thermal
expansion plus glacial/ice sheet melt together with the intensity of floods and droughts now. While acknowledging

the fairly unique situation around biological methane on NZ's GHG balance sheet there are huge numbers of
domestic ruminant animals all around the world. So methane surely needs to be addressed globally and NZ will
need to be seen to be doing its bit. We don't have quite the problem with fossil methane that confronts many other
countries so I/we think that NZ needs to swallow the difficult economic proposition biological methane presents
here and determine ways of seriously reducing it starting now - but not necessaryly have to go to zero. Moreover it

would seem that if it is accepted that nitrous oxide is a longterm gas that will need to go to net zero and that it
largely comes from the fertilizer enabling intensive farming then a consequence of reducing nitrous oxide would
presumably be less ruminants and so less methane? Finally, and importantly to us, we think that this vexed but
critical decision on the methane stabilization level, and the timeline to it, should be left to the Climate Commission.

Q3 We'd like to see NZ relying as far as genuinely possible on domestic reductions only and certainly not continue
the farce to date where we've been meeting Treaty commitments by purchasing credits offshore (whether dubious
or not) while at the same time our emissions have be inexorably rising. However, there is to us an issue here in that
the country could presumably be net zero whichever way we go and whatever we do so long as there are enough
trees planted? But we can't do that forever. While planting trees buys crucially important time it has also, it would

seem, allowed the country to have cake while eating it too. To be serious about tackling global warming the focus
has to be on the reduction of gross emissions. That won't be easy but must be faced head-on. Moreover, it seems
from our reading that the world will need to be finding ways of going even further and achieving negative
emissions at some stage when it becomes feasible and there are also reports suggesting that the 2-degree target
is still too risky and the real one should be 1.5. We could,however, possibly accept the purchase of some

international credits in the interests of Climate Justice if they were to assist vulnerable countries and in particular
those Pacific islands where NZ has responsibilities. But maybe this could/should come out of seperate Aid budgets?
Q4 Yes, but only upwards if, as seems to have been the case to date, the sequential scientific evidence always
seems to point to an ever more dire situation. In this regard we'd like to think weight is given not just to the the
plight of Humanity but also to all the other species we share this Planet with and the reality of looming widespread

extinctions. Q5 Yes Q6 Not sure - but not option one! Q7 Yes but only under exceptional and prescribed
circumstances Q8 Yes as long as they include consideration on the effects on health and on the threats to our
native ecosystems and species Q9 Yes, publicly and transparently Q10 Local Government and Iwi are critical
partners but the implications of policy on the less advantaged - and on our indigenous plants and animals - needs
to be always top of mind Q11 Yes Q12 Not being a democratically elected body it should only advise Government on

the ETS Q13 Yes Q14 Yes, mitigation and adaptation go hand in glove Q15 Yes, we see the need for the National
Risk Assessment, the National Adaptation Plan and a supporting Fund, and for regular, public and transparent
monitoring and reporting. Q16 Yes, the whole country, its businesses and its communities must be pulling together
on this one so open reporting of all relevant information wherever it lies is essential.
