Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 19/07/2018 01:40 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Sophie


Last Name
Kynman-Cole























Is there anything you'd like to add?
When I think of a zero green house gas emissions New Zealand I see a clean green country that will be safe to live

in and a top visiting destination. I believe this is only possible with a focus on public transport, a focus on reducing
peoples intake of animal products, converting a large amount of animal farms to native forests or alternative crops,
cutting out coal and having top of the line renewable energy. Education is key to achieving these goals, as are
strong decisive actions. New Zealand could lead the world here. It is about time we stood true to the clean green
image that we advertise so well.


Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting
No


I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
No

If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No



Submitted on Thu 19 Jul 2018

