Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 19/07/2018 03:31 PM

Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.

     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to
     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.



My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
Caitlin


Last Name
Carew























Is there anything you'd like to add?
I have two children age 4 and 7 and I am deeply worried for their future, and their generation.


The impact of a changing climate on our struggling native species, is also something I feel strongly about.

Our people and our environment need a strong plan that enables action. I really want to see a bold and effective
Zero Carbon Act that will give NZ the direction and certainty to make the deep emission cuts we need to avoid

devastating climate change.

I support a goal of net-zero emissions by 2040, involving all sectors and all gases.

I also support a strong focus on adaptation, recognising that climate change is already having a dramatic effect on

our communities and our natural environment. Adapation must go hand in hand with mitigation.

Thanks for the opportunity to make a submission.

Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public

posting
No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest

No
If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No


Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No



Submitted on Thu 19 Jul 2018
