Subject: Re: 'Zero Carbon for 2050': Not as 'Zero' as it Sounds, Trump's Involved! 'Have Your Say'.


Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 19/07/2018 04:19 PM





     On 16/07/2018, at 6:00 PM, Howard Fairbank                                         wrote:




                        Web Version | Update preferences | Unsubscribe             Like    Tweet     Forward




































                           'Have You Say': The proposed Governme Zero Carbon Bill designed to addres

                           Climate Change    is currently out for public Consultation. The closing day for ‘Have Your
                           Say’ submissions is 19 July 2018. To reaOne Point Zero    Submissions click here



                           "No Mr Minister, Zero Carbon is NOT a 'No Brainer'!"


                           Climate Change    seems so daunting, and

                           yet 'Zero Carbon'   seems to speak to a
                           'Simple and Perfect' solution. Add the

                           feeling created in The Bill that it is 'very
                           achievable', and its easy to see why many
                           read no further, and 'Have their Say':


                           “Yes, Mr Minister, No brainer, let’s just get
                           on and do it”.


                           This e-letter lays out why it is Not the
                           ‘Right Choice’ for NZ, Nor 'The World'.

                           And why the decision to follow the UK with Zero Carbon is a strange break in
                           NZ's legacy approaches to 'globally significant' issues.


                           On the surface of the Government's Bill proposal, it would seem that NZ is
                           just following the trusted wisdom of its colonial parent! But as will be shown
                           below, Trump is involved in this 'Out of Character' move!


                           One Point Zero    believes it important to share these perspectives, and

                           encourage others to support its Government Submissions: To hopefully get
                           the Government to stop and think what really is 'The Right Goal' for the
                           journey to 2050?


                           Unlike the UK, and most developed nations, NZ has time on its side...



                           'One Planet' vs 'Zero Carbon'??: Setting 'The Right Goal'

                           for 2050
'We' all agree: (Except Trump!!)


Humanity has a Climate Change Problem, and the main contributor to this
problem is Global Warming: Whose main cause is directly linked to the the

huge quantity of anthropogenic ‘carbon’ based emissions, spewed into the
biosphere each day.


The Zero Carbon Bill, in name alone, would seem like taking this problem
'Completely' and 'Conveniently' away? But it’s not as simple as that:


Firstly,The Real Problem    isn’t a Climate Change nor Global Warming, it’s a
'Sustainability Problem  ':


As the graph above shows, on our current trajectory we will need almost
Three Point Zero planet earths by 2050! Our 2017 Biocapacity Deficit is more

than 70%.


If ever one lived like the average New Zealander we would need more than
Three Point ZeroPlanets today.   (Global Footprint Network)


Beyond the comfort of the Zero Carbon illusion, NZ (and the nations of the
world) need to have a single meaningful goals that are focused on getting

the Three Point Zero down to One Point Zero. ie From the ‘Huge Biological
Debt’ today, to ‘No Debt’ by 2050, and then on to ‘Acceptable Credit’ by

2100! Read our submission here

Yes, 'Carbon' is a key part of getting 'there', but this needs a different

management agenda to the one proposed by Zero Carbon.



The 'Zero' Illusion. The Devil is in The Detail!


The 'Zero Bar'  (right) creates the
enticing illusion that it is a

chocolate bar that has zero
calories?: Yet for my North Pole

trip, it was the ‘chocolate of
choice’, as it had the highest

calories per 'precious gram
hauled', of any chocolate in the

world!

In these times of rife, 'alternate fact': It all depends on 'The Detail', and for

Carbon accounting, there's lots of detail, with lots of 'Flaws and Leakage' …
Read this Submission here.


In fact in using the same system, the UK could approach Zero Carbon, by just
importing all it needs, while its population all fly off overseas on high

emission, NZ vacations!!

That because the emissions linked to imports and international travel,are not

deemed as being UK emissions!

It goes without saying that the more NZ exports to the UK the more difficult

it is to for NZ to reach Zero Carbon!
These are just examples, read why following the UK with Zero Carbon is

flawed, in thisOne Point Zero   Submission here


Climate Change is serious, and The Global Biocapity Deficit above is surely
The Most serious challenge facing Humanity.


Yes, like chocolate, it is about our 'diet'! This applies to our Fossil Fuel diet,
our Meat and Dairy diet, our Tourism diet, and our Conspicious Consumption
diet.


If the main goal is to solve ‘The Real Problem! above, we need to be account
ting for chocolate and all our ‘dietary’ consumption the right way! The Zero

Carbon doesn’t do that.


In the worst case, it could be the ‘nightmare’ chocolate bar solution: One 'we'
thought would help 'us' but actually just delayed 'us' getting off the
inevitable chocolate!


Accepting its ‘obesity’, NZ should set the right 'Target Weight Goals' as its
measure of success. Then use a holistic diet management system that

includes a proper 'chocolate' (Carbon) management one, that can collectively
'take' the nation to ‘The Goal’.


Further, Obesity being a deep, systemic problem, will not be solved by a
narrow, 'bolt on' Climate Change agenda:


Solution needs a broader, deeper, Socio Economic Transformation, agenda.
Read more here



"Time for Change": Is the Following 'The Zero' Blinding to

the Opportunity?


































The Labour Party   won the election on a promise of 'Socio Economic

Transformation'. The Green Party   brought a vision to do 'The Right Thing for
a Sustainable NZ', and to 'help The World solve Climate Change'. The

Coalition has promised 'Unified Change'.

The perfect set of ingredients for The Change needed!


One Point Zero  , is the ultimate definition of a ‘Sustainable World’, but as
the obesity analogy above infers, eliminating the Biocapacity Deficit needs a

holistic treatment: Socio Economic Transformation. Zero

The Zero Carbon Bill is a 'bolt on', Illusion of Change. In the process the Socio

Economic Transformation opportunity that NZ and 'The World' needs today is
being lost. Read 'Why?', in the One Point Zero   Submission here


Achieving a One Point Zero    world requires courage and a vision to explore
the unknown. The urgency of our problem requires of every government and

leader in the world to seize every opportunity presented.

It also requires an electorate that, individually and collectively, have

imperatives to get to 'Target Weight'. In that desire the electorate ‘demand’
of the government the deepest courage and resolve: To provide the inspiring

and enabling socio economic reform that facilitates the nation’s collective
'Weight Loss Success'.
Zero Carbon: NZ, the 'Out of Character' Follower? Why..?


                                    The Zero Carbon Bill is a strange break

                                    with a legacy of leading, 'The Kiwi Way'?
                                    The NZ lead in Womens Suffrage as just

                                    one example of NZ courage and resolve,
                                    to 'punch way above it's fighting weight',

                                    in often singularly, expanding the
                                    boundaries of humanity's moral myopia.


                                    The same courage and sense of adventure
                                    into the 'morally right unknown' is needed

                                    with Climate Change and our chronic
                                    Biocapacity Deficit problem.


But why then Zero Carbon, and being 'a follower' using a '2008 technology'
solution'?


It can’t be because its British, and the Government needed to appease the
Queen!


'Following the UK is at NZ's peril, Read here


Maybe it was just a 'quick, easy and convenient', 'off the shelf', solution,
when as the new Government needed to show early 'runs on the board'?


Maybe it is because the new Government is needing to 'not rock the boat',
and rather 'go for popularity' by handing out desirable 'Zero' chocolate bars?


All possible contributors, but not quite stacking up..?






Aah, it’s The 'Mr Trump Factor'!


On 1 June 2017, in deciding to walk
away from the Climate Change

agenda he has split The Team, that
was needed to solve The Team

Problem: Eliminating our chronic,
Biocapacity Debt.


Not only has he split The Team, but
in now fearing there is no team,

nations, communities and individuals are bunkering down, to prepare for the
worst, and just look after themselves. At an individual level, I can feel it in

those I talk to from my network around the world. I'm sure you feel this too..?


Obviously, this is not good news for a new government just settling in, and
then being faced with decisions on whether to step up to the increased risk
of a Leadership, Global Activism, role.


This is the time when the Moral Warriors, and Real Adventurers in leadership

are needed. And then armed with innovative 'adventure strategies', suitable
for exploring risky, unknown territory. Read the  One Point Zero  , 'Have your

Say', Submission about 'NZ as an Activist Nation' here

As we know NZ makes up a mere 0.02% of the world's population, and with

the Trump onslaught, and NZ's relatively imune position, it has to be
tempting to just go the 'Zero Bar'way...? Add a few minor chocolate recipe

changes, work on the packaging, and then 'Sell it like hell'!

The Tourists, will come in bigger droves, the Meat and Dairy industry will

boom, GDP will hit new records, the number of Foreigners moving to NZ will
rocket to fill the jobs of the ever demanding economy. Property prices will

soar, the young and lower rungs less able to afford, and supply
overstretched. In the process the wealth gap will continue its society splitting

path, and people will be less more competitive and less caring.

The necessary reductions in emissions will be done to 'just bridge' the

perception gap between reality, and the packaging's illusion. In the process
as the Zero Carbon Bill points out, the lower income rungs of the nation will

be further compromised. Society's higher rungs will continue to use evermore
than their 'fairshare' on the nation's Biocapacity 'allowance', but in the

accounting this won't be noticed. Neither will the lower rungs susibisation of
this inequity.


The above path option is now a valid option, because Mr Trump has split the
world, and in each's future different 'Success', will lie two completely

different societies.
But maybe there is only one real choice? Maybe its about being true to 'The

Soul', and what best for The Nation as a collective?

The other option is the voluntary, and world leading, Socio Economic

Transformation. One that has One Point Zero   standards, and 'Zero Debt'
living as its goals. By necessity it will have the opposite trends to the option

above. Far away from USA's 'Trump Success': A fairer, less intruded, less
materialistic, and more 'soul pleasing', NZ.


Read about this Socio Economic Transformation option for NZ, in this One
Point Zero,  'Have you Say' Submission, here.


From my personal  One Point Zero   journey to from today, living a pluTen
Point Zero  life to where I am today, I can only say that learning to live within

my 'fairshare' of the planet's chronicly short, Biocapacity has been both
challenging to my core, and hugely personally rewarding, in its learning: The

learning of how we humans are 'supposed to live' in a 2018 world with
chronic Biocapcity Debt! In saying that it is the transformational experience

that is relevant here. There are many in NZ who have long lived stable
flourishing lives within their 'fairshare' Biocapacity 'allowance'.


Understanding what   'Without Nature We are Nothing'   really means, and
finding power in that submission. Sadly, an impossible challenge for 'Mr

Trump'!

PS: Only last week I chatted with Greenpeace NZ to explore the possibility of

a campaign to start boycotting American brands / companies doing business
in NZ (Other countries). Why isn’t the US as a society doing something about
Trump’s, Climate Change withdrawal? I sense in maybe related to everyone

enjoying chocolate, and now having a 'Trump excuse' for not having to 'stop'!



'Have Your Say' now! Support the One Point Zero

Submissions
















Hopefully in understanding and seeing why we need to resist the ‘Zero Bar’

temptation, you will now support the One Point Zero Government
Submissions. To view them all click here.


To do your own, quick 'Have your Say' email submission supporting the One
Point Zero submissions, download the simple form here here





























Edit your subscription | Unsubscribe

