Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Jasmine Taylor

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 19/07/2018 04:59 PM

Dear Madam / Sir

                            Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Jasmine Taylor

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because I am writing in support of the Zero
Carbon bill. I am a 30-year old doctoral student and I need my government to take account of the world-wide

situation we are in and act. I need my government to take action seriously so that I can contribute my individual
skills and resources to a stable earth. My efforts are robbed of their power when taken alone.

We need to hit zero carbon by 2050. The science and situation we are in is clear. I want my government to do its
part to legislate. I want us to act.


2050 target

Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation? (In legislation
now, or later via the Climate Commission?)


The Zero Carbon Act should set a 2050 target in law now. We already know we need to act.

Q2. Which is the best 2050 target for New Zealand? (Which emissions should be covered and how?)


We need the most ambitious target: net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases, not just some.

However, even if the government is unable to set a target across all gases, it should set a target of net zero long-
lived gases by 2050 and mandate the Climate Commission to recommend or set a 2050 target for short-lived gases.


The other options suggested, like merely aiming to stabilise short-lived gases or ignoring them altogether would
both undercut the 'zero' part of the Zero Carbon Act. I understand that this is difficult but, again, we need to act.

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets? (Within New Zealand, or with international trading too?)


By cutting emissions here (including by planting more forests) in New Zealand, not by buying overseas credits.
Zero should mean zero. Our forests would benefit from attention in numerous ways.

Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?


The circumstances are not going to change. We need a zero carbon bill because we need to hit zero carbon. If we
can do it sooner, all the better, but it has to be done. So, if it is possible to strengthen the 2050 target, then
absolutely, but we cannot adjust to take longer when we do not have that option in our timeline.


Emissions budgets

Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be
in place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?


Yes. Emissions budgets under the Zero Carbon Act should cover five year periods and be set three budgets in
advance. This will provide long-term certainty.

Q6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?


Only to make it stronger. Emissions budgets should be only be changed due to major changes in scientific
understanding, not political or economic developments.

Q7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific

range under exceptional circumstances?

Again, only to make it stronger. I think it is unlikely to have much benefit to continually review for ways to weaken
our actions when we need to act and as comprehensively as required to be carbon neutral by 2050 or before.


Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that the Government and the Climate Commission will need to
take into account when advising on and setting budgets?

Yes, I agree that they will need to consider:
- scientific knowledge regarding climate change

- technology relevant to climate change
- social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on fuel poverty
- energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy supplies and the carbon and energy intensity of the
economy
- economic circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on the economy, as well as the competitiveness of
particular sectors of the economy
- fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and public borrowing


Government response

Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the

emissions budgets?

Yes, the Act should set fixed deadlines, so we don't repeat the mistakes of the UK Climate Change Act 2008, which
didn't include deadlines for making these plans. We are not doing this for fun. We need to actually act.


Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For
example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?

In setting plans to meet the emissions budgets, the government should be:
- making sure they're based on the best science available

- ensuring that they deliver fair outcomes for Kiwis
- reflecting the principle of a Just Transition for workers
- honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi
- being environmentally sustainable, especially for New Zealand's unique native plants and animals
- maximising the impact of money spent and being cost-effective

- encouraging innovation
- unlocking economic opportunities for New Zealanders, such as in renewable energy
- honouring our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement
- consulting people who may be economically affected, like farmers or businesses

- consulting tangata whenua
- consulting young people, who'll live to see more of the impact of climate change
- consulting communities already facing the physical impacts of climate change

Climate Change Commission


Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's
progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?

Yes, I do. The Commission should provide expert independent advice, but not be a decision-maker. We should still

listen to the expert independent advice.

Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions
Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)? (Should it provide advice, or make decisions too?)


The Commission should advise the government on policy around the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme.
Again, the point is to do everything that we need to to hit carbon neutrality. That should be our continual
organising goal.

Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and

desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?

I agree that members of the Climate Commission should have expertise in:


- climate and environmental science including mātauranga Māori
- climate change policy (including emissions trading)
- te Tiriti o Waitangi, te reo me ona tikanga Māori (Māori language, culture, and philosophy) and Māori interests
- knowledge of the public and private innovation and technology development system
- risk management

- resource economics and impacts (including labour markets and distribution)
- experience with addressing adaptation challenges like planning, insurance and local government
- engineering and/or infrastructure
- community engagement and communications
- business competitiveness


In addition, they should have expertise in:
- expertise in public health
- understanding of our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement
- understanding of the social impacts of climate change and/or government policy

- knowledge of principles of equity and a Just Transition

Adapting to the impact of climate change


Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

Yes. There might need to be a separate adaptation sub-committee of the Commission, as in the UK. It is here and
coming, so we should take that into account. We live in a world affected by this, so our government commissions
should resource our government to be informed and act accordingly.
Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree
with the proposed functions?


Yes, the Zero Carbon Act should require:

- a national climate change risk assessment
- a national adaptation plan

- regular reviews of progress towards implementing the national adaptation plan
- an adaptation reporting power

Care will need to be taken in managing the interaction between national and local government roles.


Q16. Should the Government explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some
organisations share information on their exposure to climate change risks?

Yes. This would let the government and the public know about the risks to public and other infrastructure, and
make these organisations better informed about the risks they face.


An extra point to consider - climate finance

The Zero Carbon Act should also provide a framework for transparency and accountability around New Zealand's
international climate finance. This is an inter-related area. Let us have all relevant conversations at the legislative

and investigative table.

Conclusion


Thank you for the chance to submit on the Zero Carbon Bill. Thank you for taking the action that you are, and
please continue to develop and legislate in the ways that we need you to.

Yours faithfully


Jasmine Taylor
