Subject: Zero Carbon Act
Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 20/07/2018 07:50 AM

Dear Minister,

My concerns regarding climate change stem from my passion for wildlife and in particular marine mammals and my responses are influenced by this.


As your discussion document states, we do not know the full implications of climate change on the natural environment, but scientific research has shown that marine
ecosystems are far more sensitive to even the slightest temperature change when compared to terrestrial areas. With the ocean making up 93% of New Zealand’s

territory, the future of our marine environment should be a priority in any discussion on climate change.

I want the government to set a 2050 target in legislation now, with a commitment to net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases by that date. With methane making

up 43% of New Zealand’s greenhouse gas emissions, any commitment which seeks only to stabilise short-term gases would not be sufficient. This target should be achieved
within New Zealand, by planting trees and cutting emissions, not by international carbon trading.

I agree with the proposed considerations that the government and Commission will need to take into account with regard to the emissions budgets. These budgets should

be five years in length, and set 10-15 years in advance, with annual public reports on progress to ensure transparency. The government should not be able to alter these
budgets, with the exception of scientific breakthroughs in regard to climate change. The Zero Carbon Bill should require the government to set out plans within a time-

frame to achieve these emissions budgets.

I believe the Climate Change Commission should take on an advisory, not policy-making role, but with mechanisms built-in to hold the government to account. The

government should publicly respond to, and give reasons for deviating from, the Commission’s advice. I agree that the Commission should have the relevant expertise
listed in the discussion document, with the addition of a commissioner dedicated to monitoring and reporting on the continuing implications of climate change for the
marine environment.


With regards to my last point, I do, therefore, agree that the Zero Carbon Act should require:

- a national climate change risk assessment


- a national adaptation plan

- regular reviews of progress towards implementing the national adaptation plan


- an adaptation reporting power

Thank you for presenting the public with this opportunity to make their opinions on climate change heard, and I look forward to seeing the results of this consultation
put into action.


Yours sincerely,
Briony Baxter
