Subject: FW: Submission on the ZCB

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 23/07/2018 11:40 AM


From:
Sent: Thursday, 19 July 2018 2:25 PM
To: ZCB Submissions <ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: Submission on the ZCB



I would like this submission to be anonymous

Thank you for giving me the opportunity to make a submission on the Zero Carbon Bill. I am a 26 year old female, based in
Wellington, and for my entire life our Government has known about climate change. I am extremely excited that finally, after our
Government trying to do something about it, then not trying at all/trying to look like we were trying, that finally we have a
Government giving us the opportunity to create a Bill like the Zero Carbon Bill.

For the past 5 years of my life, I have dedicated majority of my time to pushing a conversation on climate change to finally get New
Zealand to start reducing our emissions to zero. I’ve spent numerous nights awake working on campaigns until ridiculous hours of the
night and ended up in a completely different career path to get to the point where we are now. Why? Because my future depends on
it.

Despite it being a global problem, my hope it that by having countries like New Zealand take leadership, we’ll be able to influence
other countries to do better. We need to reduce our emissions to net-zero, but we also need to take away the social license of other
countries who continue to do nothing. I hope this Bill will be a key step in getting on with what needs to be done. We need to start
reducing our emissions, and to make NZ a world leader on climate change while we’re at it. I support making it as ambitious as

possible, while allowing us to take all New Zealanders along with us along the way.
The 2050 Target
I support setting the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse gases to net zero by 2050, and this should be set in law

now. I support this goal should beinclude all greenhouse gases (including CO2 and methane).       This should include reaching net
negative C02 and N20 and reducing methane to levels consistent with the 1.5 Paris Agreement Goal. This target should be reached
by reducing our own emissions, using domestic carbon credits not international carbon credits.
To make this goal by 2050, I support Support the Government’s proposal for there to be emissions budgets that set out the pathway

over a 5-year period. I would support this to be as ambitious as possible in the earlier budgets, so we don’t let our politicians play
games and leave making all the changes right until the end. Normal people procrastinate, but our governments shouldn’t =)
This target should now be able to be revised if circumstances change, unless we find that it is not ambitious enough and need to/or

are able to reduce our emissions before 2050.
Emissions budgets
I support that emissions budgets should be set in 5 yearly periods looking ahead to the next 15 years. I also support that
these be legally binding so any chance of government less ambitious on climate change can not change these.

The Climate Commission
The Commission should advise the government on targets and policy planning. The Government should have to publicly respond to,
and provide rationale when it deviates from the Commission’s advice. The Climate Commission should also act as an independent
watchdog, publishing progress reports and highlighting problems. Please give the Climate Commission some teeth =).


Adapting to the impacts of climate change
I support the Zero Carbon Bill covering adaptation to the impacts of climate change.
This should involve the Government setting a National Adaptation Plan that sets a clear direction to local government and helps co-

ordinate the response across different sectors and including iwi and hapū.


Climate Justice
Obviously, while being as ambitious as possible we need to make sure we bring people with us. Otherwise we’ll probably just get a
new government re-elected with the mandate of doing as little as possible to reduce our emissions as possible. When writing this bill,
please consider what this bill means for those currently working in emissions intensive industries, think about what training would

need to be provided to move away from these industries. They can’t just all become coders.


Lastly, I wholeheartedly support Generation Zero’s point on ensuring that this Bill honor Te Tiriti o Waitangi and that our climate
change response should be informed by Maori world views and that Iwi and Hapu should be consulted on all parts of the process.


Thanks again for the opportunity to submit, and good luck processing them all!
