Subject: FW: Submission on zero carbon bill

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 23/07/2018 04:40 PM








From: Birchfield Minerals

Sent: Wednesday, 18 July 2018 8:47 PM
To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: Submission on zero carbon bill
I wish to make the following submission

I would like to see a proper independent scientific study done on the science of climate change and the role of carbon in the
atmosphere and I would like the following points investigated.
1 – The atmospheric carbon content is 400ppm and over 90% of this comes from nature. NZs contribution behind other countries is
insignificant.

2 - There is no reliable scientific evidence that carbon dioxide effects climate as it is a trace gas.
3 – Should the carbon content of the atmosphere fall to around 150ppm plants would not grow and life on earth would die as a
result.

4 – The earths actual temperature has not risen for the last 20 years. The figures have been tampered with to suggest otherwise.
5 – There is no acceleration in sea level rise.
6 – The poles are not melting, there is actually a build-up of ice at both poles. Antarctica is in no danger of melting away anytime
soon.

7 – The weather events being blamed on climate change are natural events.
8 – The claim that 90% of scientists agreed that manmade climate change is real is a false claim and there is still serious debate
among scientists
9 – There is growing evidence the earth could be going into an ice age because of Milankovitch cycles. The Northern hemisphere is

starting to experience very severe winters.
10 – The banks and insurance companies are still loaning out on and insuring properties in London and New York and all the other
main cities around the world, so this means that they do not consider that there is any risk to these properties from climate change

and rising sea levels.
As regards the climate the climate commission, This should have an advisory role only and be made up of qualified independent
scientists.
Where this is all heading is an attempt to justify a carbon tax that will try to force our energy users into alternatives which are

uneconomic at present. The end result will be the collapse of the NZ economy.
Regards
Allan Birchfield
