Subject: FW: No to Emissions Targets


Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz


Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz


Date: 23/07/2018 04:38 PM










From:

Sent: Monday, 16 July 2018 9:01 PM

To: Climate Consultation <ZCB@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: No to Emissions Targets
In spite of there being no real-life evidence that dangerous man-made global warming exists, James Shaw continues to attribute all manner of natural

events to global warming: “But the frequency and the severity of storms, coastal and river flooding, droughts and wildfires is increasing, and will continue to
increase as long as we and the rest of the world keep putting greenhouse gas emissions into our atmosphere… Sea level rise alone puts at risk, five
airports, 46 kilometres of railway, 1,100 kilometres of road and nearly 70,000 buildings, with a replacement cost of $19 billion.”


His exaggerated claims have no basis in fact, and are no better than the sensationalist predictions from United Nations’ climate models that have proven
to be grossly inaccurate for over twenty years – models used by former US Vice President Al Gore and the UN Environmental Programme to claim that sea
level rise would engulf cities around the world and create 50 million climate refugees by 2010!


James Shaw is not only dishonest with his fear-mongering predictions of gloom, he is also dishonest about the economic benefits of de-carbonisation, which
he claims will provide “an extraordinary opportunity to upgrade our economy, not just to be ‘clean and green’, but also more productive and better paid”.

But rather than quantifying the benefits, he refers to “the costs if we do nothing”. The truth is there is no rational argument in support of his policy
position. It’s a policy built on fear.


James Shaw’s ‘clean’ and ‘green’ economy doesn’t exist – it’s a false prophecy. Wind and solar power, which he heralds as the clean green saviours of the
future, depend on mining and smelting. A 3 metre wind turbine contains over 300 tonnes of steel, 5 tonnes of copper, 1200 tonnes of concrete, 3 tonnes
of aluminium and 2 tonnes of rare earths – where mining one tonne of rare earths produces 200 cubic metres of acid waste water. Solar panels contain
arsenic, aluminium, boron, cadmium, copper, gallium, indium, molybdenum, phosphorous, selenium, silica, silver, steel, tellurium, and titanium.


The reality is that the ideologically driven Climate Change Minister James Shaw, who is on a moral crusade to save the planet, is blind to the economic harm
his policies will inevitably cause.


At no time during the election campaign did Labour or the Greens attempt to outline the full details of the wealth cost of their Carbon Zero policy. Even now,
when the policy implications are being disclosed and the costs are becoming clear, they are continuing to down-play the cost and claim benefits when there
are none.


No party has the right to introduce policies to destroy a country’s economic future without clearly spelling out their intentions during an election campaign.
No so called democratic government has the right to consult on proposals to reduce the material wellbeing of its own people by up to 25 per cent. No
gases should be included in emissions targets, because just like the Emissions Trading Scheme, James Shaw’s proposed Zero Carbon Bill will create a costly
nightmare of red tape and bureaucracy that will waste time and money, drag down the economy, and destroy businesses and jobs – all for no benefit.


Since Labour and the Greens did not do that, their Zero Carbon Bill should be rejected in the strongest possible way. I strongly request
that this outrageous Bill should be withdrawn immediately.

Craig Walker
