Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Deidre Bourke

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 24/07/2018 12:43 PM

Dear Madam / Sir

                           Submission on the Zero Carbon Bill from Deidre Bourke

This is our chance. I'm excited to be submitting on the Zero Carbon Bill because Thank you for the opportunity to
make a submission on this bill. I support this legislation and as someone with a specialisation in regulatory theory I

know the importance of setting clear goals that are capable of enforcement and monitoring. This legislation must
have teeth to work, especially if it is to instigate reform and transition from to zero carbon emissions in resistant
industries/sectors. Crucially it is important we begin to transform our agricultural sector, away from unsustainable
practices and with its emphasis on animal agriculture.


2050 target

Q1. What process should the Government use to set a new emissions reduction target in legislation? (In legislation
now, or later via the Climate Commission?)


There must be a legal requirement in place for it to work and be taken seriously, this is so important enforcement
and compliance need to be possible.

Q2. Which is the best 2050 target for New Zealand? (Which emissions should be covered and how?)


Net zero emissions across all greenhouse gases, including methane - not just some! This is also from a
fairness/equity perspective so no specific industries are treated preferentially just because of historical norms.

Yes long-lived gases by 2050 are very important but the agricultural industry as a whole needs to start

transitioning as well and incentives be put in place to get that ball moving. It is insufficient to ignore short-lived
gases when they as a whole contribute so much of NZ's share.

Q3. How should New Zealand meet its targets? (Within New Zealand, or with international trading too?)


By planting more crops and forests and returning farmland to bush and native forest, prioritising land adjacent to
national parks or in fragile/unsustainable areas - which should never have been cleared for farming in the first
place, also areas adjacent to waterways and coast. I am opposed to NZ simply buying overseas credits to offset
emissions. Zero should mean zero.


Q4. Should the Zero Carbon Bill allow the 2050 target to be revised if circumstances change?

No if anything it should be continual strengthened with further even more aspirational targets set as the ideal to
ensure changes are not piecemeal and momentum increases rather than reduces over time. This is compatible with
the spirit of the Paris Agreement.


Emissions budgets

Q5. The Government proposes that three emissions budgets of five years each (i.e. covering the next 15 years) be
in place at any given time. Do you agree with this proposal?


Yes. Emissions budgets under the Zero Carbon Act should cover five year periods and be set three budgets in
advance. This will provide long-term certainty.


Q6. Should the Government be able to alter the last emissions budget (i.e. furthest into the future)?

No. Scientific rather than political or economic factors need to take lead in such an important area. The same 'no
backsliding' principle should apply as for the 2050 target.


Q7. Should the Government have the ability to review and adjust the second emissions budget within a specific
range under exceptional circumstances?

No


Q8. Do you agree with the proposed considerations that the Government and the Climate Commission will need to
take into account when advising on and setting budgets?

I agree that they will need to consider:
- scientific knowledge regarding climate change

- technology relevant to climate change
- social circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on fuel poverty
- energy policy and the likely impact of a decision on energy supplies and the carbon and energy intensity of the
economy
- fiscal circumstances and the likely impact of the decision on taxation, public spending and public borrowing

But I do not consider - economic circumstances and the likely impact of a decision on the economy, as well as the

competitiveness of particular sectors of the economy is as important as these, in act too often this concern stalls
any change and is even elevated importance undermining the overall goals.

Government response


Q9. Should the Zero Carbon Bill require Governments to set out plans within a certain timeframe to achieve the
emissions budgets?

Yes, the Act should set fixed deadlines, so we don't repeat the mistakes of the UK Climate Change Act 2008, which

didn't include deadlines for making these plans.

Q10. What are the most important issues for the Government to consider in setting plans to meet budgets? For
example, who do we need to work with, what else needs to be considered?


In setting plans to meet the emissions budgets, the government should be:
- making sure they're based on the best science available
- ensuring that they deliver fair outcomes for Kiwis
- reflecting the principle of a Just Transition for workers
- honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi

- being environmentally sustainable, especially for New Zealand's unique native plants and animals
- maximising the impact of money spent and being cost-effective
- encouraging innovation
- unlocking economic opportunities for New Zealanders, such as in renewable energy

- honouring our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement
- consulting people who may be economically affected, like farmers or businesses: but only in terms of supporting
them through transition (rather than allowing transition to be stalled)
- consulting tangata whenua
- consulting young people, who'll live to see more of the impact of climate change

- consulting communities already facing the physical impacts of climate change

Climate Change Commission

Q11. The Government has proposed that the Climate Change Commission advises on and monitors New Zealand's

progress towards its goals. Do you agree with these functions?

Yes, I do. The Commission should provide expert independent advice, but not be a decision-maker.

Q12. What role do you think the Climate Change Commission should have in relation to the New Zealand Emissions

Trading Scheme (NZ ETS)? (Should it provide advice, or make decisions too?)

The Commission should advise the government on policy around the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme.

Q13. The Government has proposed that Climate Change Commissioners need to have a range of essential and

desirable expertise. Do you agree with the proposed expertise?

Members of the Climate Commission should have expertise in:


- climate and environmental science including mātauranga Māori
- climate change policy (including emissions trading)
- te Tiriti o Waitangi, te reo me ona tikanga Māori (Māori language, culture, and philosophy) and Māori interests
- knowledge of the public and private innovation and technology development system
- risk management

- resource economics and impacts (including labour markets and distribution)
- experience with addressing adaptation challenges like planning, insurance and local government
- engineering and/or infrastructure
- community engagement and communications



In addition, they should have expertise in:
- expertise in public health
- understanding of our international commitments, including under the Paris Agreement
- understanding of the social impacts of climate change and/or government policy

- knowledge of principles of equity and a Just Transition

But be free of industry representatives and those with conflicts of interest.


Adapting to the impact of climate change

Q14. Do you think the Zero Carbon Bill should cover adapting to climate change?

Yes. There might need to be a separate adaptation sub-committee of the Commission, as in the UK.
Q15. The Government has proposed a number of new functions to help us adapt to climate change. Do you agree
with the proposed functions?


Yes, the Zero Carbon Act should require:

- a national climate change risk assessment
- a national adaptation plan

- regular reviews of progress towards implementing the national adaptation plan - this is key.
- an adaptation reporting power

Care will need to be taken in managing the interaction between national and local government roles.


Q16. Should the Government explore setting up a targeted adaptation reporting power that could see some
organisations share information on their exposure to climate change risks?

Yes. This would let the government and the public know about the risks to public and other infrastructure, and
make these organisations better informed about the risks they face.


An extra point to consider - climate finance

The Zero Carbon Act should also provide a framework for transparency and accountability around New Zealand's
international climate finance.


Conclusion

Thank-you for being brave enough to tackle this issue head on. I'm excited to have the chance to submit and hope

that it will have some teeth and there will be follow-through in practice. If we do not act soon we will fall behind
and that can only be bad for our competitiveness, the economy and the planet and future generations.

Yours faithfully


Deidre Bourke
