Subject: FW: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website

Recipient: zero-carbon-bill@submissions.mfe.govt.nz

Sender: ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz

Date: 25/07/2018 02:04 PM


From:
Sent: Thursday, 19 July 2018 2:20 PM
To: ZCB Submissions <ZCB.Submissions@mfe.govt.nz>
Subject: Submission on the Zero Carbon Act via Forest & Bird website
Dear Ministry for the Environment,


I believe in a net-zero carbon future for New Zealand. We need to make dramatic reductions in our emissions to
keep climate change limited to 1.5 degrees and ensure our precious native plants and animals are protected.
Nature is our taonga and we cannot exist without it. We must act together.


The key things I support in a Zero Carbon Act are:

     target for net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 should be in the Act.
     The emissions from transport, industrial activity, agriculture, and all other sources should be included in the
     target. Even ‘short-lived’ gasses can have a huge effect on our climate and need to be reduced.
     Emissions budgets should be at least as important as fiscal budgets, and the Government should set plans to

     achieve them.
     An independent Climate Change Commission of experts should monitor emissions and give advice to keep New
     Zealand on-track for its emissions reduction goals.


My details and further comments on my submission:

Submitted values are:

First Name
georgina


Last Name
cuttance























          anything you'd like to add?

Much more informed people will talk to the science however as a country who relies on tourism, we trade on our
clean/green brand.
In my submission I’d like to ask at the next phase of (?)working group/s that tourism NZ (other relevant bodies) is
asked to provide info. about the economic value of our clean/green brand and what the potential impact will be on

tourism if we damage it.


Please ask the Ministry for the Environment to withhold my name and personal details from public
posting

No

I would like Forest & Bird to contact me about future campaigns and other matters of interest
Yes


If you are under the age of 18, please check this box
No

Under 18s: Does your caregiver give consent for you to make this submission?
No

Submitted on Thu 19 Jul 2018
