 Name                                           Katy Simon

 Email

 Town / City

 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is the climate is our world and the health of the world is our
 important because...                           responsibility.

 Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I support doing this here in Aotearoa New

                                                Zealand through direct emissions capping and long-term changes in
                                                agriculture, transportation and urban planning- not through trade
                                                schemes and outsourcing and use of international carbon credits.
                                                Any short term targets or efforts must be held accountable to the
                                                longer term targets, particularly shorter term infrastructure

                                                adaptation plans. I also support taking a mixed-knowledge approach
                                                that incorporates mātauranga Māori and the sciences (both physical
                                                and social). A diversity of knowledge is key for deliberative decision-
                                                making, a model needed for the uncertainty and complexity of
                                                climate change.

 Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                                final decisions. Experts and advisers must also include Māori
                                                representatives. It would also need to consider the ways youth
                                                voices will be represented.

 Adaptation                                     I support a clear proviso that any adaptation plans enacted in
                                                regional, district or city councils would need to abide by the Zero
                                                Carbon Act and NOT result in 'mal-adaptation' by further increasing

                                                GHG emissions or exacerbating the vulnerabilities of those already
                                                disproportionately at risk.

 Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be procedurally just and fair in that it
                                                honours Te Tiriti o Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and
                                                communities; and avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
                                                A climate justice approach will also include distributional justice and

                                                cost sharing by holding large companies and transnational
                                                corporations doing business in Aotearoa New Zealand accountable to
                                                cost.

 Further comments


The message has been sent from                                  at 2018-06-12 17:43:00 on Chrome 67.0.3396.79
Entry ID: 232
