 Name                                           Rob Harris

 Email

 Town / City

 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It provides direction for the economy. It provides constraints and
 important because...                           incentives. The industries we depend on food, fibre, building
                                                materials, luxury experience, traditional culture, education,

                                                bio/chemical/genetic industries all depend on doing more with less,
                                                establishing an added value niche and backing this with increasingly
                                                smart green technology. High carbon enclaves are unsustainable in
                                                the current world environment. Of course this piece of legislation can
                                                only provide a framework for directional change - spending on

                                                education, new technology, better land management, more
                                                sophisticated resource management is also necessary to underwrite
                                                a zero carbon approach. However, what we do need to see is ways of
                                                measuring progress - mixed indicators, some measuring increased
                                                carbon absorption, some measuring reductions in lifecycle carbon for

                                                materials, some measuring land management practices in terms of
                                                their ability to reduce and capture (especially soils and plantation
                                                and native forestry), some measuring carbon use for transport, some
                                                measuring overall carbon loss to the atmosphere from building
                                                categories, etc. This should also be linked to CPI as a carbon index

                                                figure, which should increasingly be a minus. Other hopefully
                                                negative fall environmental factors such as N & P loss (based on key
                                                measurement sites) should also be indexed to CPI and possibly
                                                published alongside GDP on a quarterly and annual basis. I generally
                                                don't support the carbon trading market, which has always been

                                                easy to rort and will remain so given our relatively small involvement
                                                in the market and the untrustworthy way it is operated by larger
                                                players. At best it is a minor mechanism, but not one to be relied on
                                                to achieve significant changes in how we operate our productive and
                                                domestic activities and how innovative we become. Reliance on

                                                carbon markets have arguably slowed our technological progress by
                                                more than a decade.

 Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                international carbon credits.

 Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

 Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

 Further comments                               anything that comes out of this legislation should be clear; be

                                                backed by measurements, integrated into our economic
                                                measurements, avoid complex regimes, set achievable goals and be
                                                backed by a range of pathways for getting there.


The message has been sent from                                  at 2018-06-10 16:18:30 on Firefox 61.0
Entry ID: 41
