 Name                                          Catherine Bagnall

 Email

         City

 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is important because we are
 important because...                          facing environmental catastrophe. As a lecturer in a university I am
                                               so aware of the fear and concern that our young people have about

                                               their future and the world they are going to inherent. They are well
                                               versed in the climate science and the issues that are directly
                                               impacting or will impact them such as the degradation of clean water
                                               here in Aotearoa, ocean acidity due to global warming, the huge with
                                               plastics problem in our oceans and food chain and why Aotearoa to

                                               date seems to have so little to reduce our carbon emissions.
                                               I think it is absolutely fundamental that an independent Climate
                                               Commission is set up and as a country we do not get left behind in
                                               the shift to cleaner energy. I feel bleak about our future because to
                                               date so little seems to be changing here in this country and we owe

                                               it to the next generations to do something about global warming
                                               now.

 Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

 Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

 Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
 Further comments



The message has been sent from                                    2018-06-10 16:37:22 on Firefox 60.0
Entry ID: 47
