 Name                                           Ben Drury

 Email



 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The Zero Carbon Act is an important Act for New Zealand because
 important because...                           we can do more reduce the effects of climate change.


                                                The Zero Carbon Act is an opportunity for New Zealand to make
                                                positive change for the environment. We need this law to ensure that
                                                New Zealand is doing everything it can to reduce the effects of
                                                climate change. As an 18 year old, it is my generation who will
                                                experience the effects of climate change first hand. Therefore it is

                                                very important to me and many others my age that everything
                                                possible is done now to reduce emissions. Emission reductions
                                                targets must be ambitious in order to generate effective and real
                                                change for the benefit of the New Zealand environment. We owe it to
                                                future generations of New Zealanders that we do everything possible

                                                now to reduce the effects of climate change in the future, the Zero
                                                Carbon Act is an opportunity for New Zealand to make effective
                                                change for the benefit of the environment and New Zealand must
                                                take this opportunity.


                                                This Act is important because it shows other countries that taking
                                                effective action to reduce emissions is not only necessary, but also
                                                practicable and possible. If New Zealand passes this act, New
                                                Zealand will set an example for other countries to follow and exerts
                                                itself as a leader in efforts to reduce the effects of climate change.

                                                New Zealand can influence positive change in environmental
                                                practises internationally. This highlights that the passing of the Zero
                                                Carbon Act is not only important for, and will benefit New Zealand
                                                but also for the world in the long run.


                                                Therefore, I urge you to put your politics aside and support the Zero
                                                Carbon Act.

 Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                international carbon credits.

 Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

 Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

 Further comments


The message has been sent from                                   at 2018-06-10 18:53:42 on Chrome 67.0.3396.79

Entry ID: 72
