 Name                                           Ella Flavell

 Email





 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I am currently a teenager and this act will be extremely important for
 important because...                           New Zealand's leadership on the global issue of climate change. At
                                                school we have studied the effects of fossil fuel emissions and have

                                                met some of the scientists at GNS at the forefront of climate
                                                research. Climate change is an extremely complex issue and
                                                requires comprehensive and clear legislation on our part as a country
                                                to ensure that warming stays below 2 degrees for my generation and
                                                those following us. New Zealand has a really amazing opportunity to

                                                take leadership on one of the most pressing issues for the world, and
                                                we must be able to make the decision to reach net zero emissions by
                                                2050. As a country that supports small nations in the pacific, we
                                                have an additional responsibility to take this urgent action, as they
                                                are already seeing the effects of sea-level rising from climate

                                                change.

 Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                international carbon credits.

 Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

 Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations. This act must be

                                                thoroughly thought through and provide a clear route for our country
                                                to take towards net zero emissions. The process to develop it must
                                                consider the complexities of emissions and the impact this goal will
                                                have on people - this will help us reach net zero emissions for my
                                                generation and our children whilst honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi and

                                                workers and communities.
 Further comments


The message has been sent from                                    at 2018-06-10 21:33:29 on Safari 9.1.3

Entry ID: 106
