 Name                                           Jo T N Murphy

 Email

 Town / City

 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Enshrined in Law the Zero Carbon Act will spotlight all evasions and
 important because...                           infringements of our intention to create a safe, clean environment for
                                                New Zealand and our visitors. It will indicate to the world our resolve

                                                to foster sustainable harvesting of naturally occurring foods. In
                                                addition it will encourage the use of cleaner fuels for manufacturing
                                                and transport. Time is running out....and the poorest in the world will
                                                bear the brunt of drastic climate change.

 Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target for reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as efficient as
                                                possible. We must aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while
                                                reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. Where possible,
                                                fuels should be re-usable. This target should be reached by reducing
                                                our own overall emissions. There is no such thing as a carbon credit.

                                                Swapping information does not reduce any emission. Such schemes
                                                are not only wrong, they dupe people into thinking something has
                                                been done to reduce carbon emissions.

 Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts who have scientific evidence to work with.
                                                Such a body should reveal the science, and recommend carbon
                                                reduction activity - using logical powers of persuasion, but not

                                                making arbitrary decisions. The public needs to be engaged, not
                                                bullied into personal life changes

 Adaptation                                     Supported by science and real life evidence - I support a plan for
                                                adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi, ensures a just transition for workers and communities, and
                                                refuses to pass costs onto future generations.

 Further comments                               Forget the red herring of trading carbon emission units. Change
                                                needs to be enacted NOW....by all of us. The one valuable thing such

                                                a Commission could do: is promote the dissemination of the GOOD
                                                news. The scientific discoveries about how our world ecosystem
                                                works are helpful and encouraging. We need to co-operate with this.
                                                For instance, there are break through discoveries on working towards
                                                collecting or destroying plastic (with bacteria) as well as recycling it.

                                                The Public need to hear encouraging good news....ideas and
                                                inventions coming out of laboratories around the world showing us
                                                how to reduce our personal carbon footprint. One step at a time.


The message has been sent from                                         -06-11 08:52:46 on Chrome 67.0.3396.79
Entry ID: 135
