 Name                                          Kelly Brown

 Email

 Town / City

 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I want my children to inherit a healthy place to live. I want my
 important because...                          children to be able to swim in rivers and fish the oceans. I was away
                                               for 18 years and wanted to bring my children back to a New Zealand

                                               I remembered growing up in. Unfortunately that place no longer
                                               exits. Our rivers are polluted and our oceans overfished, dairy
                                               farming has ruined much of our water and land. We have people
                                               fracking, overseas company's exploring our oceans to exploit our oil,
                                               we are burning fossil fuels and seem unable to recycle plastic even

                                               though countries overseas have found inventive ways. New Zealand
                                               has the great opportunity to be a leader in becoming green (we are
                                               NOT 100% pure - far from) we could be energy efficient and invest in
                                               ways of recycling and upcycling. The Zero Carbon Act needs to
                                               happen and it needs to happen NOW not in 2050 or some other

                                               ridiculous target that will be too late.

 Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

 Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

 Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

 Further comments


The message has been sent from                                  at 2018-06-11 09:35:18 on Chrome 67.0.3396.79

Entry ID: 141
