 Name                                           Gabrielle Dyson

 Email

 Town / City

 Phone

 A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is This is a ground-breaking, world-leading project. Climate change is
 important because...                           the greatest threat to human societies and to all other ecosystems
                                                on Earth. It's brave, timely, and downright responsible of New

                                                Zealand to pass a law enshrining targets to remove our contributions
                                                to this global threat.

                                                In New Zealand, we enjoy relative security from water, food, and
                                                energy shortages, and shelter from climate-induced disasters. What's

                                                more, we're far removed from regions suffering from those problems,
                                                which also struggle to deal with mass migrations due to climate-
                                                related disasters. However, we contribute far more than our fair
                                                share to the pollution that is causing climate change and global
                                                temperature rise. It's time we recognised that we must urgently

                                                reduce the burden that we place on our environment and
                                                atmosphere, and pledge to help those who we have hurt due to our
                                                consumptive economy and polluting industries.

 Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                international carbon credits.

 Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

 Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

 Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

 Further comments                               The Zero Carbon Act must recognise how the burden of climate
                                                change is disproportionately felt by low-lying coastal regions and
                                                island nations. In addition, it must acknowledge the disproportionate
                                                impacts of climate changes to large regions of the world that are
                                                prone to drought, water shortage, and food insecurity. In recognising

                                                these harms, the Act should make allowance for the creation of
                                                mechanisms for New Zealand to support the rehousing and
                                                integration of residents of climate change-ravaged countries as
                                                climate refugees. As part of this recognition, the Act should amend
                                                the legal definition of refugee to include people fleeing from regions

                                                suffering from climate damage, including food and water scarcity,
                                                land loss, and storms. In addition, the Act should require an increase
                                                in New Zealand's commitments for accepting refugees.


The message has been sent from                                  at 2018-06-12 11:43:45 on Chrome 66.0.3359.181
Entry ID: 217
