Name                                           Ben Westwood

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need to have a clear direction an strong leadership for tackling
important because...                           climate change and educate everyone on the importance of having
                                               these goals and the need for building a sustainable future. New

                                               Zealand should and could be leading the world in the adoption of
                                               sustainable energy, transport, agriculture, industry etc and setting a
                                               global example for others to follow, showing how being sustainable
                                               makes economic sense as well as being the only way to preserve the
                                               planet for future generations. The carbon zero act is important as it

                                               will set out legal responsibilities for all and hopefully ensure that
                                               people realize how important tackling climate change is and combat
                                               the apathy many have towards the issue. I believe the target of
                                               becoming net zero by 2050 is way too long a time frame considering
                                               the issues that currently face the planet, a target of 2030 would be

                                               better. Industries need to change/ adapt and jobs need to be created
                                               in the eco sector to offset the losses from jobs in industries that are
                                               most affected.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               The government needs to support adopters of green technologies e.g
                                               electric vehicles. many countries have tax refunds for those buying
                                               EVs/ solar panels and this certainly seems to aid adoption rates..
                                               Many people would like to buy these things but cannot afford to.
