Name                                           Jennifer Olsen

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is essential as it is something
important because...                           that is going to affect all of us, our children and future generations.
                                               We owe ourselves and future generations to get it right. We are

                                               getting down to the 11th hour in terms of our impact on climate
                                               change, already we cannot eliminate the damage we have done but
                                               at least we can try and halt any further damage. We need this law to
                                               provide direction, without it nothing will change and the
                                               consequences are hard to comprehend. The average person does not

                                               have the capacity to change by free will, the reasons for this are
                                               diverse ...this act needs to provide the backbone for the change that
                                               is imperative for future livelihood. It needs to be strong and robust to
                                               weather future political change and to change the current ambulance
                                               at the bottom of the cliff attitude.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
