Name                                           Kit Nelson

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change threatens the survival of life (including human life)
important because...                           on this planet. Mad Max is a cool movie but not a reality I want!!!!

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions. The independence of the Climate Commission is of
                                               paramount importance and the ability of the Climate Commission to
                                               speak freely and inform the public in plain language is important for
                                               clear understanding of different governments effectiveness in
                                               combatting climate change.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

                                               From what I understand NZ won't be the worst affected (especially
                                               compared to our public neighbours) so the focus of adaptation in NZ
                                               should be assisting other countries in their adaptation to sea level
                                               rise & ocean acidification.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations. A key part of
                                               Climate Justice I believe is culture change - things like changing how
                                               we view eating meat and cycling to work. Tone from the top is
                                               important in this regard - the people leading this charge should
                                               speak proudly on their personal actions to reduce their emissions

                                               e.g. biking/using the train to get to work or eating little meat/dairy.
Further comments                               This is the most important issue facing our race. If we can get this

                                               right I believe we will survive and thrive long in to the future,
                                               however prompt action is essential. If we're to make Star Trek a
                                               reality for humanity we need to start now!
