Name                                           Ian Logie

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It is a model proven to be successful in the UK.
important because...
                                               Given so much of the marketing of New Zealand's products and

                                               services attempts to position us as clean and green - in order to
                                               extract extra value and to compensate for how far we are from most
                                               major markets - it is important that we be a leader in climate
                                               responsibility rather than a laggard focused on the short-term $$$
                                               effects.


                                               I want to be proud of New Zealand - not ashamed of it.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
