Name                                               Ken Crispin

Email




Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is          Citizens Environmental Advocacy Centre. (CEAC) Est’ 2001.
important because...                                                                               Protecting our environment & health.
                                                   In association with other Community Groups, NHTCF and all Government Agencies since 2001.


                                                   17th June 2018.
                                                   Submission to ZERO CARBON BILL


                                                   Transport is unregulated for carbon emissions currently and we at our Citizens Environmental Advocacy Centre has a full set of documents showing road freight
                                                   vehicles are some of the worst carbon emitters that are causing our carbon emissions to increase without any penalties so trucks must now be regulated and

                                                   emission tested every six month COD fitness from now on.

                                                   We have a NIWA scientist giving us facts that one truck emits 100 times air pollution than one car and the truck is not taxed on their excessive emissions. We

                                                   also have a rail emission study done by "The fuel & Energy group" who produced a report showing rail has little harmful emissions compared to truck
                                                   emissions.by comparison.


                                                   Climate law must be introduced to control the overuse of truck freight and also this will encourage more use of rail freight.

                                                   The use of 34 tyres on one truck is not yet regarded as a carbon emitter, - but now carbon emissions from the making of synthetic tyres from oil should be

                                                   regarded as an emitter too, and the preferred use of those tyres should be measured as carbon footprint emitters by those users and taxed by that use.as rail
                                                   uses no tyres but only steel wheels which do not emit any carbon emissions.

                                                   Electric locomotives are far cleaner than any other form of transport today and should therefore be held as a low carbon emission vehicle compared to any truck

                                                   or vehicle with synthetic tyres.

                                                   A Zero carbon act may be the method to measure these emissions from tyres and emissions from use of inefficient truck freight vehicle transport.


                                                   We have a document from the Ministry of transport called Emission Factors for Contaminants Released by Motor Vehicles in New Zealand "Infrastructure
                                                   Auckland “December 2002.(84917/EmisionFactiors.by Paul Kennedy and Jennifer Gadd Kingett Michell Ltd. And Ian Moncreiff Fuels and Energy Management

                                                   group Ltd that we were given by NZTA.

                                                   In this study document it states that one truck with 12 tyres emits 5040 mg per km and one car only emits 120 mg er km, so a truck today with an average of 32

                                                   tyres will emit at least 2.6 times 5040mg per km which equals 13104mgs it will emit per km.
                                                   see this evidence on page 37 under table 4.12 "summary of particle emissions. from tyre wear"


                                                   Some emission’s from tyres are cancer causing from 3,1,Butadiene/styrene and the black tyre dust pollute our water systems from "road runoff" claim NIWA..

                                                   We have a study also from WHO/EU & NASA who have traced tyre dust now floating on the "Gulf stream" water flow to artic ice shelf and settling on the ice and

                                                   attracting heat from the sun, and rapidly increasing the melting of our ice caps in both hemispheres. North & south Poles alike, so measuring tyre use must now
                                                   be added to climate act policy law too..


                                                   Ken & Janet Crispin.

                                                   Secretary.
                                                   Citizens Environmental Advocacy Centre.

                                                   CEAC.
                                                   Directors.
                                                   CER Environmental Monitoring Ltd’ Est, 2002.



Long-term target                                   I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse gases to net zero by 2050. I also support allowing public input and providing documents we
                                                   have that will enhance taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we should aim for negative levels

                                                   of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                   international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                                 I support the establishment of a Government oversight of the use of some who are not industry besed individuals but only those who have documented evidence
                                                   that they can demonstrate that they are already fully independent and produced public released documents that show they believe climate change is a real

                                                   threat and are capable of making hard decisions to impliment the changes we need as members of a Climate Commission that is made up of public knowledge
                                                   experts as our Environment centre is shown to be,and provides advice, but does not make final decisions.

Adaptation                                         I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                    A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and avoids passing on the

                                                   costs to future generations.
Further comments                                     This is an addendum to our submission to support rail as now becomming our principal freight carrier as the previous climate minister did in 2014 on Pete
                                                     hodgson so here is our full submision for use of rail to lower our carbon emisions to help the target of Zero carbon Act.


                                                     Citizens Environmental Advocacy Centre. (CEAC) Est’ 2001.
                                                     PO Box 474. Napier. Email; clean.air@xtra.co.nz

                                                     Protecting our environment & health.
                                                     In association with other Community Groups, NHTCF and all Government Agencies since 2001.
                                                     Public & media submission – Zero carbon bill - submission & on the re-opening of the Napier - Wairoa – Gisborne rail services.


                                                     17th June 2018.
                                                     Subject; public community submission to; beehive.govt.nz/speech/zero-carbon-bill-consultation-launch Introducing the Zero Carbon Bill - June 2018 James Shaw. -

                                                     Climate change minister.



                                                     Point 1/

                                                     Please re-introduce and incorporate MP Pete Hodgson’s “National Rail Strategy” as part of his climate change policy he produced as the former Minister of

                                                     Transport and “Ministerial group on Climate change” under the previous Helen Clark Government.

                                                     www.parliament.nz/en/mps-and-electorates/former-members-of-parliament/hodgson-pete/
                                                     • Minister of Research, Science and Technology: 10 December 1999 - 21 December 2004

                                                     • Associate Minister for Industry and Regional Development: 10 December 1999 - 19 October 2005
                                                     • Convenor, Ministerial Group on Climate Change: 14 August 2002 - 19 October 2005
                                                     • Associate Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade: 13 November 2000 - 26 February 2004

                                                     • Acting Minister of the Environment: 23 February 2001 - 27 March 2001

                                                     Pete Hodgson produced the excellent policy of using rail under the “National Rail strategy” – 2005 “To ensure environmental sustainability”.



                                                     • Here is the references in this document from the Ministry of Transport.

                                                     • www.transport.govt.nz/assets/Import/Documents/nationalrailstrategy.pdf

                                                     Quote;

                                                     Pete Hodgson’s forward in this “ National Rail Strategy” policy paper;

                                                     National Rail Strategy to 2015 May 2005 ISBN 0-478-10005-1


                                                     “ It is my pleasure to present the Government’s new National Rail Strategy.


                                                     When this Government came to office in 1999, we had already made a very firm commitment to give clear directions to the New Zealand transport system that
                                                     would reflect the realities we shall face in the 21st century.


                                                     This commitment led to the New Zealand Transport Strategy being released in December 2002.

                                                     The New Zealand Transport Strategy states that ‘by 2010 New Zealand will have an affordable, integrated, safe, responsive, and sustainable transport system’.


                                                     To achieve this we have set five objectives, all equally important:
                                                     • To assist economic development
                                                     • To assist safety and personal security

                                                     • To improve access and mobility
                                                     • To protect and promote public health
                                                     • To ensure environmental sustainability


                                                     Another driver of this process has been the Kyoto Protocol, which the Government agreed to ratify three years ago, and which came into force in February 2005.


                                                     In order to meet our protocol commitments we shall need to focus on reducing transport energy use in particular.

                                                     Under the right conditions, rail is a very energy-efficient transporter of both passengers and freight, and we look forward to seeing better use of New Zealand’s

                                                     rail network.

                                                     Now we have brought New Zealand’s rail infrastructure back into public ownership, and the vision and objectives of the New Zealand Transport Strategy will be

                                                     applied to New Zealand’s railway network.

                                                     Through the National Rail Strategy, the Government is demonstrating its commitment to retaining the existing network; to investigating the development of a

                                                     number of new railway lines; and to maximising the use of rail transport.

                                                     The aim is to move people out of cars for urban journeys, and freight off roads, wherever possible.


                                                     For freight this means a focus on bulk or containerised loads, including traffic such as milk or logs. For passengers it means a focus on busy urban corridors in the
                                                     larger centres, and using smart thinking to manage congestion.


                                                     This is an exciting time in New Zealand transport, with a dynamic vision beginning to achieve real results, working towards an affordable, integrated, safe,
                                                     responsive, and sustainable transport system.


                                                     The Labour Progressive government acknowledges the contribution of the Green Party to the development of this Strategy, and both the Green Party and the
                                                     United Party’s support of the government’s transport policy.”


                                                     Hon Pete Hodgson Minister of Transport

                                                     End - of quote;


                                                     Pete Hodgson refers to the transport emissions as being a major issue, and that half of our climate change emissions come from transport (over 46%).


                                                     Pete Hodgson produced a ‘dedicated rail policy’ to lower the increasing transport emissions.

                                                     By reducing road freight use was a positive goal, as road freight uses over five times the energy to transport the same amount of freight as rail does per tonne

                                                     per km.

                                                     Point 2/


                                                     www.kiwirail.co.nz/uploads/Publications/The%20Value%20of%20the%20Rail%20in%20New%20Zealand.pdf

                                                     This year in February 2018 the new Labour coalition Government revealed a hidden recently discovered important rail policy document that the last government

                                                     produced under National’s Bill English in 2017 but failed to release.

                                                     www.kiwirail.co.nz/uploads/Publications/The%20Value%20of%20the%20Rail%20in%20New%20Zealand.pdf


                                                     But this vitally important rail policy document was never released, under the last National Government, and should now be used also as the report clearly showed
                                                     that Rail in NZ was of a great economic and environmental benefit that saved $1.5 Billion Dolllars per year already and there is potential that using far more rail

                                                     will benefit our climate and environment and economy if used in a more regional planned policy.

                                                     4.3


                                                     Safety benefits Another important benefit of rail is the safety benefits of moving both freight and passengers by rail instead of roads. The safety benefit of rail is
                                                     estimated to be approximately $68.78m to $60.21m. This study has calculated benefits by transferring rail passengers and freight to light vehicles and trucks

                                                     and applying factors from Ministry of Transport (MoT) to estimate the extra safety incident costs and subtracting the costs of existing safety incidents on the rail
                                                     network. This represents the avoided safety cost of the rail network. The net safety benefit (avoided cost) of passenger rail is $8.28m to $3.97m and for freight
                                                     rail it is $60.50m to $56.24m, even though the number of incidents is similar showing that transporting goods using heavy vehicles is more dangerous than rail.


                                                     4.4


                                                     Emissions benefits The total emission cost figure represents avoided costs from transporting freight and passengers by rail and hence for this study it also
                                                     represents the value of emission benefits. The estimated extra avoided cost (therefore benefits) of emissions created from moving Auckland and Wellington rail
                                                     passengers and rail freight to road is $9.27m to $8.45m. This is a net figure and the emission savings arising from discontinued use of freight trains locomotives
                                                     have been subtracted from the gross total. A modest proportion of the emission benefits is from the transfer of passenger services from road to rail with the

                                                     largest amount of this net extra avoided cost arising from rail freight.
The message has been sent from 103.25.246.68 (New Zealand) at 2018-06-17 20:08:02 on Chrome 67.0.3396.87
Entry ID: 387
