Name                                            Gerald Parsonson

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change is arguably one of the most difficult challenges
important because...                            humanity will face. The use of fossil fuels has been interwoven into
                                                the industrialisation and economic success of developed nations for

                                                years. It fuels us and provides wealth, but now sadly our addiction is
                                                starting to kill us and other life on the planet. The signs are all over,
                                                the Arctic is melting, Antarctica is melting faster than expected,
                                                billions of hectares of forest have been destroyed, 50 and 100 year
                                                storms are now regular occurrences all over the world. Atmospheric

                                                carbon levels are on a parabolic curve upwards following human
                                                population numbers. The sea levels are rising, and this is only the
                                                beginning. Most scientists are incredibly concerned and there is
                                                starting to be real concern out there in the public, although in many
                                                cases the public and businesses are still apathetic. Legislation is

                                                essential, and there are growing examples of how this works well in
                                                other responsible countries, e.g. with the UK Climate Act. Legislation
                                                will provide an even structure for all citizens, businesses etc to
                                                connect into and do what is necessary and essential to start turning
                                                the ship around. Westpac bank has published a report recently,

                                                which concluded that it will never be easy to introduce strategies to
                                                reduce carbon emissions, but more importantly it is easier, and more
                                                economical to start now than wait until we are much further down
                                                the track. Legislation like a Zero Carbon Act is a no brainer and
                                                essential.

Long-term target                                I support the target of reducing total greenhouse gases to net zero
                                                by 2050. I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure

                                                our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we
                                                should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing
                                                short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target should be reached
                                                by reducing our own emissions and not by using international carbon
                                                credits, which are smoke and mirrors and achieve very little.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                                People and businesses, left to their own devices are known to act
                                                slowly over threats of a distant nature, and it is easy to feel
                                                'overwhelmed'. 'Not owning it' is an easy way out for most people

                                                who are just worried about day to day issues directly affecting them.
                                                Well considered legislation like a Zero Carbon Act is an even, fair and
                                                sensible way to introduce a structure for all to measure guide their
                                                contribution to reducing carbon emissions.
