Name                                           Patricia Scott

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The planet faces an existential threat from climate change. The
important because...                           world needs to reduce its caarbon emissions to 350ppm so that the
                                               increase in temperature is kept below 2degreesC and preferably

                                               below 1.5. Any increase above that will cause polar and glacial ice to
                                               melt resulting in catastrophic sea level rise which will flood major
                                               coastal cities around the world, force Pacific peoples to leave their
                                               island homes and cause millions to migrate. There will be extreme
                                               weather events which will cause widespread flooding and droughts,

                                               causing famine and starvation and disrupting industrial economies
                                               around the globe. Many natural ecosystems will be disrupted and
                                               many species of plants and animals will go extinct. New Zealand is
                                               only a small country but it is in a position to play a leading role in the
                                               international campaign to cut emissions of greenhouse gases. It is

                                               heartening that the National Party has agreed to join the campaign
                                               so the legislation cannot be overturned by a change of government.
                                               The appointment of a Climate Commission which is independent will
                                               ensure the government and the public get the best advice,

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
