Name                                           Beth Goodwin

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change has effects far beyond what is currently apparent.
important because...                           Having worked in agriculture in deserts and near-deserts, I have
                                               seen the impacts of rising temperatures first hand. There's not just

                                               one country which needs to get its act together, it's every single
                                               country. New Zealand emissions affect other countries, and their
                                               emissions affect us in more ways than just temperature. For
                                               example, as it gets harder to grow food in hotter climates, it changes
                                               the face of trade. NZ needs to put the discussion on climate change

                                               in a much higher priority than we currently are doing. The way we
                                               treat our soil is a particularly necessary topic to examine, as this has
                                               massive implications on CO2 emissions, and I don't hear a lot of
                                               discussion on this point. There's a limit to the change that concerned
                                               individuals can make, it is the duty of government to prioritise these

                                               discussions and to put guidelines and strategies in place.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
