Name                                           Kelly Agassiz

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The negative impacts of climate change are already evident -
important because...                           drought, coral bleaching, severe cyclones, shrinking glaciers and
                                               changing flora/fauna behaviour. Without substantive action these

                                               impacts will only get worse over time. We need to take action now to
                                               safeguard the environment for the next generation.

                                               The Zero Carbon Act is one solution that will provide a pathway for
                                               successive governments to ensure NZ reduces our green-house gas

                                               emissions to net-zero. We need to have ambitious goals, a
                                               framework for a just transition to a fossil free future, and to be
                                               accountable for our actions (and inaction).

                                               NZ also prides itself on 'punching above our weight on the world

                                               stage'. As a Pacific island nation, NZ should be leading on effective
                                               climate action - policy and practice - in solidarity with our Pacific
                                               neighbours.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
