Name                                          Iain Hamilton-Gates

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate Change is real, let´s pause for a moment and realise that the
important because...                          debate surrounding this issue is over, and should have been resolved
                                              over 30 years ago. A lost opportunity back then, which makes the

                                              Zero Carbon Act so necessary in 2018.
                                              Though New Zealand is a small carbon polluting country, we do
                                              produce. But enabling this Act to proceed is not only about curbing
                                              our emissions but it is about creating opportunities for New Zealand
                                              and New Zealand businesses.

                                              If given the right frame work, businesses can set their own targets
                                              for cutting back on inefficient systems and strive for creating new
                                              opportunities in the future. Allowing New Zealand Inc to become a
                                              world leader in the green revolution and to create whole new
                                              industries which will replace industries directly affected by carbon

                                              laws.
                                              There is no better time to seize the opportunity than right now.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
