Name                                           Kevin Pearson

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Reducing emissions and improving air quality can only be a good
important because...                           thing. I believe the proposed law and in particular a well informed
                                               commission could help guide action with some very local short term

                                               problems in my neighborhood. I live in Riverhead, Auckland. The only
                                               way in and out is by car. There is no safe cycling or walking routes to
                                               the nearest town centres. There is no public transport. The local
                                               playing fields at the Riverhead memorial park have been upgraded
                                               over the last few years with sports field lighting and sand carpets so

                                               people can use the grounds well into the winter early evenings which
                                               is great but often those training at the local Rugby club are obscured
                                               by the smog as the woodburners are lit and the early evening dew
                                               forms. Took the kids to the skate ramp yesterday before tea to get
                                               out for some exercise but we had to head home because of the

                                               smoke as the houses bearby got their woodburners going. Riverhead
                                               sits in a bit of a hollow so is a few degrees colder on winter nights
                                               and the smoke often doesn't dissipate even when the sun is out the
                                               next day. Lifestyle blocks to the north often have bonfires in Autumn
                                               which can fill the valley with smoke in what has become residential

                                               housing areas over the last few years. The local daycares are all on
                                               main roads where the kids play outside where the traffic fumes are.
                                               Our log burner is an old one but still compliant under the rules.
                                               Power cuts are relatively frequent in winter. Most houses on my
                                               street have crying windows on a winter's morning including my own.

                                               I have a ventilation system but can't run it on winter's nights
                                               because of the smoke. I've insulated the roof and floor in our villa but
                                               still have problems. Where next? Pull off the gib and insulate the
                                               walls. Double glazing. Gas central heating? No cheap fix but maybe
                                               doable. The ventilation system would do most of the job but for the

                                               poor outdoor air quality I can't run it. For me a zero carbon act
                                               means cleaner air and along the way other good things may happen
                                               in support of that goal.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
