Name                                            Catherine Bindon

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I'm 48 years old.
important because...                            In this life time so far I've witnessed our seasons change from being
                                                a standard and reliable measure of time and of what weather we

                                                have to come, to being chaotic, extreme and unseasonable.
                                                I am acutely aware of the warming of our atmosphere, not just
                                                through scientific data and news reports but also by experiencing it -
                                                the loss of frosty mornings in winter, the extreme burning heat of
                                                summer and the undetermined nature of autumn and spring.

                                                This has affected our household even - last summer, the hottest on
                                                record for Wellington we had to use the air con, daily, for the first
                                                time and had to purchase block out blinds to reduce the intense heat
                                                coming through the windows in the afternoon and evening. We are
                                                now saving to buy more block out curtains for other rooms.

                                                in 2016, another searing summer I suffered heat stroke for the first
                                                time in my life.
                                                These things are not normal or natural.They are also not healthy.
                                                We need the Carbon Zero Act to do what we can to reduce the
                                                emissions that are causing these problems, or at the least, buffer

                                                these conditions for future generations.

Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                                international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                                I would like to see councils brought into the proposed Zero Carbon
                                                Bill.

                                                In the northern suburbs of Wellington we have witnessed large scale
                                                environmental destruction to make way for housing developments.
                                                In our area over one hundred mature pines and macrocarpa's were
                                                felled to make way for homes in the million dollar price range. The
                                                subdivision of Woodridge which has approximately 700 households

                                                has lost it's local and valuable carbon sink and shade, on top of being
                                                a car ride away from even the most basic amenities. No shopping
                                                and service hub was ever designed for this subdivision. This is a
                                                complete failure to design around our climate reality.
                                                Housing development needs to be sustainable and have zero impact

                                                on climate.
                                                We can do this by introducing climate change mitigation as a
                                                condition of a resource consent for developers. This would require
                                                council to provide commercial zoning for new large scale
                                                developments so residents don't need to use their cars.

                                                It would require the protection of existing mature tree's to act as
                                                carbon sinks and it would require the developer to plant more tree's
                                                to off set the emissions of extra human activity in the area.

