Name                                           Fin McLachlan

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is My good friend likes to turn the common phrase "curiosity killed the
important because...                           cat" into "assumption killed the cat" because it assumed it could
                                               cross the road. But I believe the leading cause for the death of the

                                               cat was ignorance. As soon as the cat left the concrete, it ignored
                                               what was around them carried on forward. Like the proverbial cat,
                                               we are walking across a road, we've left the footpath and we can
                                               either shut our eyes and ignore the on-coming traffic turn to face it
                                               and find a way out.

                                               We have to remember that when go to work, come home, go to
                                               sleep, wake up again, and repeat, we're not passively going through
                                               life, we're actively living in it. We decide to drive our car, we decide
                                               to buy eye fillet steak from countdown, we decide to scroll past a
                                               post like this and not make a submission. No one is feeding us

                                               instructions through an earpiece, we are all living our own lives and if
                                               we choose to do nothing, then we're criminals.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
