Name                                           Rosemary H Lovell-Smith

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Per capita, we contribute rising greenhouse gas emissions - which
important because...                           make the whole problem worse - far in excess of the per capita rates
                                               in many much larger countries which are hotter, have poorer

                                               populations, and will feel the effects of climate change much more
                                               severely than we will. These people do not want our meat or dairy
                                               products. We sell these to heavily pollutant richer countries. What we
                                               are doing is stupid, selfish, unhealthy, and unfair.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits. Yes!

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               I am in an anti-coal action group, Auckland Coal Action. We want no
                                               more new coal mines, which is a no-brainer, and we'd prefer all
                                               existing coal mines phased out except perhaps for what is used by
                                               NZSteel. Coal contibutes massively to climate change. I support a

                                               government imposed carbon charge on polluters. We want active
                                               seeking of more sustainable ways to warm ourselves, feed and
                                               clothe ourselves, and fuel industries such as Fonterra's milk
                                               treatment factories, which continue to install new coal-burning
                                               heating plant. Fonterra should be actively seeking alternative and

                                               sustainable ways of making milk powder, but judging by what we
                                               have heard from the industry, it will not change until a carbon charge
                                               raises the cost of coal beyond the cost of sustainable alternatives. An
                                               alternative fuel Fonterra could be exploring in our part of the world is
                                               installing heating plant which burns forestry waste from the places in

                                               forests currently being felled where the logs for timber are prepared
                                               and there is much waste of surplus burnable wood.
