Name                                           Huw John

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I want to live in a country that is at the forefront of the
important because...                           environmental movement. Its not good enough to wait until things
                                               get worse before we act in a way that puts the environment first. As

                                               a country that relies on its clean green image for promoting tourism,
                                               environmentalism and economic development should be one and the
                                               same and we cant afford to ignore the environment for short term
                                               economic growth as this is going to come back to bite us hard.


                                               NZ can be and SHOULD be a world leader in this arena, our country
                                               and lifestyles as Kiwis depends on it more than most other places
                                               due to our intimate connection nature that we are afforded by living
                                               in beautiful Aotearoa. We can show other countries that it can be
                                               done and lead the way into a greater more green sustainable future.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               However here should be a safe guard for preventing future
                                               governments extending the 2050 goal for economic reasons, as it is
                                               a short term approach and our environmental plan cannot be only

                                               implemented during times of prosperity and forgotten about to gain
                                               short term political points when we go through economic downturns.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               NZ can do better than this, we have built our country on the back on
                                               unsustainable farming and economic models but there is s future out
                                               there where we can do what's right and we need to grab that while

                                               we can.


                                               Be brave enough to do whats right.
