Name                                           Lucy England

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We must act now! As a 20 year old I am scared of what my future
important because...                           might hold, and what the results of inaction might be. I want to grow
                                               old and have children that can say thank gosh our parents and

                                               grandparents did something for us, knowing the awful truths and
                                               potentials we now know. The science is so clear, to say we didn't
                                               give it our everything to turn around the fate of the earth would be
                                               shameful. As an individual and a student, I do my best to cut down
                                               carbon emissions in all aspects of my life- food, fashion, travel, and

                                               household energy. I do these things to be able to live peaceably with
                                               myself, yet I know I alone can't make an impact. I also know that
                                               there are many who can't afford, or don't know how, or just don't
                                               have the agency to make the changes I have made to my lifestyle,
                                               as an informed, privileged young adult. It is clear that for real change

                                               to be made it needs to come from government, those with power to
                                               make change. I give my complete support to the Zero Carbon Bill, as
                                               an essential way to encourage and enforce collective, impactful
                                               change. We don't just owe it to ourselves to provide a world where
                                               we can live with the environmental freedom we, in New Zealand at

                                               least, have experienced, we owe it to all other species on this planet
                                               who thus far, we have betrayed immensely.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
