Name                                           Erin Eydt

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We simply have no alternative. Climate change is the most
important because...                           significant challenging facing humanity, and cannot be subject to the
                                               political game or industry lobby groups.


                                               This law is for the future of people, and all the other animals that live
                                               on planet earth with us. It is a matter of human rights - in that those
                                               most affected from climate change now and in the future are among
                                               the most vulnerable.


                                               We need a law to ensure urgent, meaningful and comprehensive
                                               action to transition to a carbon zero future - with this law, New
                                               Zealand could again become a leader in the world on the most
                                               fundamental issue of our time. We can shift the conversation on

                                               climate action and help facilitate change elsewhere in the world.

Long-term target                               I absolutely support the most ambitious target of reducing total
                                               greenhouse gases to net zero by 2050.

                                               I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts
                                               to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we should aim for

                                               negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases
                                               to sustainable levels.

                                               Most importantly, this target should be reached by reducing our own
                                               emissions and not by using international carbon credits. Carbon
                                               credits are not meaningful action, and means we toss away an

                                               incredibly important opportunity to diversify our economy to one of
                                               the future.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               I support the inclusion of specific commitments to our Pacific

                                               neighbours and considerations of climate justice for wider
                                               international aid and development.
