Name                                           Cliff Brown

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The ecology of the world is being destroyed by human activity.
important because...                           Anthropogenic climate change is beyond dispute. Wildlife has been,
                                               and continues to be, crushed while humans multiply like a virus (cf

                                               Agent Smith in The Matrix!). 10,000 years ago, humans made up 1%
                                               of the weight of vertebrate land animals: the rest were all wild.
                                               Today, wild animals make up just 1%. The other 99% is humans, our
                                               farmed animals and our pets. The world's renewable resources
                                               (forests, fishing, etc) are being gobbled up at 1.7 times the rate that

                                               they can be replenished. It has been estimated that the world's soils
                                               are good for only another 60 harvests. THIS MUST STOP.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it ensures a just
                                               transition for workers and communities; and avoids passing on the

                                               costs to future generations.
Further comments                               We're looking at 2050 - about 30 years from now. 30 years ago, say

                                               1990, NZ's population was 3.41 million. Today it's about 4.87 million.
                                               That's an average compound growth rate of 1.2%p.a. If we extend
                                               the same growth rate for the next 30 years, then by 2050 NZ's
                                               population will be about 7.0 million. That's a cumulative growth of
                                               43%. So the challenge of cutting emissions to zero will have grown

                                               by 43% if we do nothing now. In other words the entire project needs
                                               to be adjusted so that every aspect of emissions cutting is viewed on
                                               a population-adjusted basis so that it's all per-capita. And it must be
                                               recognised that every year that a zero per-capita emissions economy
                                               does not exist, the problem will grow. It follows that a crucial part of

                                               a zero-emissions strategy is to limit population growth, ideally to
                                               zero. Adding more people to New Zealand merely expands the
                                               quantity of the living, not the quality of life.
