Name                                          Gareth Ward

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is shifting our society and economy to a zero carbon footing is not only
important because...                          mitigation of a significant threat we face but also a major positive
                                              opportunity to transition that economy to a more successful and

                                              more resilient model. Societies and human mindsets are not setup to
                                              naturally respond to long-term threats and opportunities, regardless
                                              of their potential impact, so our governing bodies and leadership
                                              need to provide the impetus, frameworks and momentum to address
                                              them.

                                              Our country has a tremendous culture (particularly informed by Te
                                              Ao Maori) of supporting the next generation of Kiwis, valuing our
                                              environment, and responding pragmatically to challenge. We are
                                              natural leaders on the world stage to showcase what a positive
                                              governance response to these opportunities can look like.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                              international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
