Name                                            Greg Nikoloff

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We have made this mess, and it our generations job to fix it, or at
important because...                            the very least, put NZ on the path to fixing the mess and making
                                                sure it happens in full on or before 2050.

                                                While it will have costs, the costs of not doing this now will be many
                                                times greater and the impacts higher and adjustments even more
                                                painful. So we have to act, and act swiftly.
                                                We have known about this issue since we signed Kyoto Protocol in
                                                1990. We have been living in denial ever since that we need to do

                                                anything much as its costs are now, the change is too difficult and
                                                impacts are too far off. Well those impacts are here now and will only
                                                keep happening.
                                                By being an early mover we not only gain credibility, but we gain a
                                                real economic advantage over other countries we export to and

                                                compete with. Building our future industries to service our home
                                                grown needs, and then export our skills and technologies overseas is
                                                what we have done with sheep meat and dairy and other food
                                                exports. We need to stop being a passive user of this technology and
                                                start inventing our own, and the worlds future.

                                                This law will bring this about.

Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases and all short and long equivalents to net zero by 2050. I also
                                                support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to
                                                reduce emissions are as impactful on the issue as possible: we
                                                should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing
                                                short-lived gases to sustainable levels so that the net effect is zero

                                                or less. This target should be reached by reducing our own emissions
                                                and impacts and not by using international carbon credits and
                                                relying on others to do the heavy lifting.
                                                There will be pain along the way, this is accepted, but without any
                                                long term plans we will become affected by the lack of targets

                                                regardless. So we might as well do something positive instead of just
                                                letting the negative issues happen.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.
                                                However I also expect that the Climate Commissions

                                                recommendations are more or less accepted as-is by all politicians as
                                                routine - just as the Salary Review Commission that sets politicians
                                                income via its recommendations from time to time are also mostly
                                                accepted as is.
                                                We can't afford to pick and choose which bits of advice we follow. We

                                                either take the advice in its entirety or we don't bother. None of this
                                                we will pick what we feel comfortable with.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids simply passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
