Name                                          Mischa Hill

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is As David Attenborough once said; "How could I look my
important because...                          grandchildren in the eye and say I knew what was happening to the
                                              world, and did nothing." The ZCA is going to make a difference to the

                                              future of our beautiful Aotearoa, our envionrment, our industry, our
                                              economy, and the livelihoods of our future generations. Climate
                                              change through emissions is changing our planet, and we have the
                                              power to make a difference through climate law in to reduce
                                              emissions and the effects of climate change. Climate change is

                                              exacerbating the consequences of disasters worldwide. We are
                                              seeing more extreme flooding, storms and natural hazards in New
                                              Zealand because of the impact that emissions are having on our
                                              environment. If we want to still call this place our home, we need to
                                              reduce our emissions. We owe this to our children, our grandchildren,

                                              their children, our country and planet, to do something. The ZCA is
                                              that something. I want to make my great-great-great grand children
                                              proud that we did something!

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
