Name                                           Tom Batchelor

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
important because...                           gases to net zero by 2050.


                                               I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts
                                               to reduce emissions have as much impact in reducing greenhouse
                                               gases as soon as possible. The farmers should be part of the effort -
                                               don't give them another walk passed this legislation.


                                               We should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing
                                               short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target must be reached
                                               by reducing our own emissions and not by using international carbon
                                               credits.


                                               I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions. Please borrow heavily from the UK Climate
                                               Commission. We need the Commission to implement a continuous
                                               policy of change, regardless of the Party that is in power. We cannot

                                               implement climate change reduction if every three years the newly
                                               elected government reverses the decisions of the previous one.

                                               I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

                                               Thanks New Zealand!

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
