Name                                           Nigel Larsen

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Politically, we have had more than thirty years of neglecting this
important because...                           issue and hoping that it will go away. But climate change hasn't gone
                                               away and it is time to have binding targets set by a politically

                                               independent Climate Commission, based on ground rules and
                                               expectations set by a Zero Carbon Bill.

Long-term target                               We should not be relying on carbon credits to offset our use of fossil
                                               fuels and greenhouse gases produced by our archaic pasture based
                                               farming systems. Therefore, I support the most ambitious target of
                                               reducing total greenhouse gases to net zero by 2050. I also support

                                               taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to reduce
                                               emissions make the most impact. to do this we should aim for
                                               negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases
                                               to sustainable levels. This target can only be reached by reducing
                                               our own emissions and not by using international carbon credits.

                                               Relying on the latter means that other countries would be doing their
                                               bit by making real reductions, but we wouldn't be.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, sets binding targets
                                               and has the right to over-ride political decisions that are not in
                                               keeping with the goals that are set. I do not support National's view
                                               that parliament would make the decisions after receiving advice.

                                               This would leave the process too vulnerable to political expediency
                                               driven by politician's desire to create jobs and expand the economy
                                               at our environment's expense.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi, ensures a just transition for workers and communities, and
                                               avoids passing on both environmental and economic costs to future

                                               generations.
Further comments                               Like many other instances where NZ has led the way, we can be

                                               become a beacon for other nations by going ahead with a Zero
                                               Carbon Act and establishing an independent Climate Commission.
                                               This commission would be charged with setting 5 year goals and
                                               holding governments to account.


                                               As well as reducing fossil fuel consumption, our agricultural sector
                                               needs to transition from pasture-based animal production to largely
                                               horticultural production that has been shown time and time again to
                                               be a much lower emitter of greenhouse gases and which uses much
                                               less water. According to a recent article in The Guardian, something

                                               like 83% of the world's farmland provides for only 18% of calories
                                               and 37% of the world's need for protein. Without meat and dairy
                                               production, global farmland use can reduced by 75%, still feed the
                                               world and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 60%.


                                               The NZ dairy industry while valuable, is an enormous and wasteful
                                               user of water and energy. It uses all that water and then burns coal
                                               and gas to get rid of it so we can export a dry powder to a country
                                               where they will add water again. Surely the industry can find a better
                                               way of doing things?
