Name                                           Hamish McWilliam

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is A climate law like the ZCA is important to me because I want NZ
important because...                           Governments to have an ambitious, consistent, long-term approach
                                               to dealing with climate disruption and its cts.I want NZ to plan for

                                               predicted changes in sea level, rainfall and storm events in our own
                                               country. I want us to assist neighbours in the Asia-Pacific region who
                                               will be most affected by those changes in their countries. I want NZ
                                               to do our bit and be an inspiration and leader for other countries to
                                               follow in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I want us to invest in

                                               research and innovation to adapt to and mitigate climate disruption
                                               that we can share and sell to the world. I want my son to live in a
                                               world as rich in biodiversity as the one I enjoy. A climate law like the
                                               ZCA will put us on a planned path towards these goals.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions. I think that there should be an expectation that
                                               Government will enact policy that aligns with the recommendations
                                               of the Climate Commission. Divergence should only follow
                                               comprehensive debate and consultation.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation to climate disruption being included in
                                               the Zero Carbon Act. This means preparing now for our predicted

                                               future climate.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
