Name                                           Kate Horrell

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Without a solid and actionable Climate Change plan, there is no
important because...                           future for Aotearoa, or the planet for that matter. The time to act
                                               was yesterday, but we can and should put the steps in place to bring

                                               our emissions to zero as soon as possible. We shouldn't leave it up to
                                               future generations to deal with the problems people of 30 years ago
                                               didn't pay attention to.
                                               As a small but innovative country, we have the opportunity to lead
                                               the way in reducing greenhouse gas emissions (particularly through

                                               agriculture) for other countries that need that extra push. There are
                                               plenty of nations that have taken massive steps towards carbon
                                               emission reduction so the question is not why is the Zero Carbon Act
                                               important, but why has it not already happened?

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050, but I believe that 2050 is too far away of

                                               a target. It is imperative that we act immediately and aim for a closer
                                               target (like 2030 or 2040) because the longer we put off reducing our
                                               emissions, the harder it may be to deal with the change to carbon
                                               neutral. I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our
                                               efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we should

                                               aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived
                                               gases to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by
                                               reducing our own emissions and not by using international carbon
                                               credits, as well as continually offsetting any emissions that may
                                               continue after 2050.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions. Further to this, it is imperative that this commission
                                               not become an elitist group all nationalities, genders and skills are
                                               considered. While it is important that people with relevant
                                               qualifications be on the climate commission, we need not
                                               discriminate and should take applications into consideration.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
