Name                                           Rory Pilbrow

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Thanks for the opportunity to make this submission.
important because...                           A climate law like the Zero Carbon act is important because it seeks
                                               the address perhaps the greatest threat to humanity in these days.

                                               No country is now immune to the effects of global climate change
                                               due to the warming of the earths surface brought about by excessive
                                               use of fossil fuels and other CO2 producers.
                                               All people owe it to their children and possible grandchildren to do
                                               something now before it is too late.

                                               All peopl

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. Some scientists have said it is already too
                                               late. However I believe reducing greenhouse gases in this way will
                                               make it possible for the planet to continue.
                                               I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts

                                               to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we should aim for
                                               negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases
                                               to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by reducing our
                                               own emissions and not by using international carbon credits.
                                               International carbon credits lack any ultimate validity because they

                                               can be manipulated either by the country using them or the country
                                               supplying them.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               As usual it is the poorer countries who have to pay for the excesses
                                               of the wealthier countries. This is as much a justice issue as it is an

                                               environmental issue. By passing a Zero Carbon Act NZ will at the
                                               very least be acting in solidarity with those countries where climate
                                               change is already effecting food production and land use.
