Name                                          Bernadette Macartney

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need to act widely and quickly to save our environment and
important because...                          contribute to lowering carbon emmisions throughout the world. This
                                              plan needs to be enshrined in legislation because it needs

                                              government support and protection from groups and processes that
                                              might slow or limit targets and progress. A Climate Commission is
                                              important and will act to strengthen a co-ordinated response,
                                              progress and accountability. The effects of climate change are
                                              already devastating, New Zealand needs to be as ambitious as we

                                              can be and not pass the buck or rely on other countries and
                                              generations before decisive action leads to zero carbon emmissions.
                                              By then it might be too late. Climate change and carbon emmissions
                                              are every Nation and person's problem and responsibility.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
