Name                                           Andreas Fischer

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is A changing climate and its consequences is a very scary scenario,
important because...                           especially when I think about my kids, other kids, and all future
                                               generations to come. It is our duty to do everything we can to

                                               prevent this. We know it is happening. We know what we need to do
                                               to prevent it. We know that it will require sacrifices. We know that if
                                               we fail, our children and their children will look back at us with great
                                               disappointment in the best case, and plain contempt in the worst
                                               case. Just because it was inconvenient at the time is not good

                                               enough. I am willing to endure some inconvenience.
                                               I would argue almost everybody in New Zealand is aware of the
                                               urgent need for actions. At the same time, many people doubt that
                                               their sole actions will make a difference, or they wonder what they
                                               can do at all. Or they are just busy dealing with their day-to-day life -

                                               they know it's important, and they want to do something, but it's
                                               bloody hard if you work long days to pay the bills and then look after
                                               the kids. A concerted effort is necessary to have a meaningful
                                               impact. It must be the role of the government to lift the head above
                                               the daily grind, look ahead, and prepare the legislative environment,

                                               and provide boundary conditions in a way that allows our collective
                                               action.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               Adaptable should be the means of how we are going to reach the

                                               goal of zero emissions, but not the goal itself (unless a new, credible
                                               scientific consensus emerges).

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
