Name                                            Tamara Cartwright

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Human activity is literally killing all life on the planet.
important because...
                                                Trade policies for the improving a few people's bottom line and the

                                                country's GDP are killing all life on the planet.

                                                New Zealand has become a client state - exporting out raw
                                                materials, such as logs, milk powder, live animal exports - Gandhi
                                                showed us long ago that this was not good for India (when the British

                                                didn't allow India to spin cotton into cloth). It is definitely not good
                                                for the long term benefit and health of New Zealand and all life here.

                                                Out of one side of our mouth we say we want to protect the native
                                                life here. Out of the other side of our mouth we kill life that these

                                                native species depend upon (pesticide use). We drop 1080 to kill
                                                unwanted species, but then allow hunters to release pigs into the
                                                wild which also destroy the habitat of our native species.

                                                We are giving away our water, we are still allow coal exploration, gas

                                                and oil exploration. Why?

                                                We need a holistic approach to stop killing all life on the planet. We
                                                need a big picture view of how New Zealand will work to care for
                                                ourselves and our beautiful country and not create laws and

                                                agreements that continue to allow multi-national corporations to
                                                exploit us and destroy our beautiful country.

                                                New Zealand can do better. We can stop dividing the country and
                                                people into political parties .. this isn't a Green, Labour, Maori,

                                                National issue .. this is a quality of life issue for ALL life.

                                                We need a sustainable country with sustainable industries and
                                                practices. Time to end the view that everyone can get rich by
                                                becoming a dairy farmer. Time to end the view that taking out native

                                                bush and planting pine trees so we can export logs is good.
Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels.


                                                This target should be reached by reducing our own emissions and
                                                not by using international carbon credits.We cannot rely on buying
                                                the credits of other nations. We need to pro-actively change our
                                                business model.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                                final decisions. No industry insiders that want to keep the petrol,
                                                coal, old ways going!

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                                Be brave and be bold. The top fat cats don't care about our future ..
                                                they are trapped in the delusion that money for them is all that

                                                matters. Money will protect them. When there is no clean air, no
                                                clean water, no food to eat .. money will have deceived us all.

                                                Thank you for listening.
