Name                                           James Cotter

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is (a) we don't have the right to degrade the livelihood of other humans
important because...                           in climate-vulnerable locations of space (e.g., low-lying countries) or
                                               time (future generations), or the existence or vitality or other species

                                               (e.g., the demise of species because of our own selfishness is
                                               absurd);
                                               (b) even our own quality of life stands to be degraded without
                                               meaningful action against climate change, and
                                               (c) current business models at all levels, esp. national and

                                               international, are not fully-costed, incl. effects of using finite
                                               resources (e.g., helium, nickel), plastics and their long-term effects;
                                               this is inexcusable but is propogated by those whose interests it
                                               serves, i.e., the currently profitable individuals and businesses. This
                                               has to be seen for what it is.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
