Name                                          Dom G

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is This sets a real statement.
important because...
                                              This is a real opportunity for New Zealand to say that we do not need

                                              to be bound by the old way of doing things.
                                              To say that the act of producing needs to be consider the impact of
                                              that production not just to the point of distribution or consumption.
                                              Whether that is energy generation, carbon usage, plastic, it all
                                              comes to the same thing. There is a lifecycle which needs to be

                                              considered and the responsibility for ensuring zero impact should
                                              exist with suppliers as well. Not as an afterthought where someone
                                              else has to pick up the bill after the producers / suppliers have made
                                              their money.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                              It is fantastic to see this happening. Keep up the great work.
                                              We can make a change which makes a difference!
