Name                                           Barb Nixon Mackay

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We have been hearing our scientists warning us of the catastrophic
important because...                           change that will come cur if we take no action on GHGs. This is about
                                               saving the environment that supports the network of species that are

                                               interdependent and,of which, humankind is but one of those species.
                                               My children and their children. There is cleaner energy and as long
                                               as the fossil fuel industry is supported and not held to account, the
                                               longer it will be until NZ and the world gets on and makes clean
                                               energy easier to get and more affordable.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also think that each type of GHG should
                                               be addressed separately. I support taking a science-based approach
                                               to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful as
                                               possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while
                                               reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target should

                                               be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits. We must also make sure any NZ ETS is
                                               not a platform for shifting responsibility for GHG emission here or for
                                               overseas countries.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

                                               That choice of experts must include scientists (chemists, agricultural
                                               scientists, environmental scientists, physicists and biologists) as well
                                               as economists and social scientists. I would expect the government
                                               of the day to strongly heed the advice of this group and not be
                                               unduly influenced by lobby group such as the oil and gas industry or

                                               the trucking industry group.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations. This includes
                                               supporting our agricultural communities.

Further comments                               The transport and freight industries must start paying their fair share
                                               of costs.
                                               We must encourage freight to go electric.

                                               Also need to address travel by air and sea.
