Name                                            Brendon Tangiora

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is ...it is finally a step in the right direction in terms of putting action to our
important because...                            country's support of the United Nations Framework Convention on

                                                Biodiversity, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
                                                Change (UNFCCC) and others which our government has been talking
                                                the talk about for the last 26 or so years. Surely we are beyond

                                                disputing the extremely conservative findings of the Intergovernmental
                                                Panel on Climate Change. The worlds leading experts in their respective
                                                scientific fields are warning us of the dangers posed by living a lifestyle
                                                based upon an economic philosophy that perceives the environment as

                                                an infinite resource to be exploited for financial gain. The reality is we
                                                live in a finite environment and I fear the human race as a whole has
                                                done too little, too late to bring balance back to the environment which

                                                we all must live in. With the assent of a Zero Carbon Act at least we can
                                                tell our children and our grandchildren that we tried to turn back the
                                                tide of unsustainable industrialism. I would venture to take it further by
                                                entrenching many of the objectives and policies of the Zero Carbon Act

                                                into our constitution because how else can the rest of the world trust a
                                                country that would sign their support of the UNFCCC (or any United
                                                Nations Convention for that matter) if we refuse to enact policy that

                                                brings action to our words. The Resource Management Act 1992 is a
                                                prime example of how environmental legislation in this country has
                                                been repealed by successive governments to the point that there are
                                                now so many loop holes and complexities that it fails to achieve its main

                                                objectives. The objectives of the RMA were largely in response to the
                                                1987 Brundtlant Report that recommended a more sustainable
                                                approach towards development. It is this generations responsibility to

                                                ensure a sustainable environment for future generations. This mantra
                                                accords with the Principles of the Treaty of Waitangi in that it supports
                                                the tangata whenua concept of Kaitiakitanga. The Waitangi Tribunal

                                                interpret the princple of equity as "where Māori have been
                                                disadvantaged, the principle of equity – in conjunction with the
                                                principles of active protection and redress – requires that active
                                                measures be taken to restore the balance" (Waitangi Tribunal, 2016).

                                                The environmental imbalance and the resulting disadvantage of Māori
                                                cannot be dismissed, neither can the responsibility that requires the
                                                Crown to take active measures to restore the balance be dismissed. For

                                                this reason alone the Crown should have no hesitation in assenting this
                                                bill. If for no other reason, the government should assent the Zero
                                                Carbon Bill because it is the right thing to do to help ensure the well
                                                being of the human race.


Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse gases
                                                to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based approach to
                                                ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we
                                                should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-

                                                lived gases to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by
                                                reducing our own emissions and not by using international carbon
                                                credits.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission that

                                                is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make final
                                                decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               Waitangi Tribunal, (2016). Waitangi Tribunal - The Treaty of Waitangi/Te
                                               Tiriti o Waitangi - Principles of the Treaty. Retrieved 2 July, 2018, from
                                               www.waitangitribunal.govt.nz/treaty-of-waitangi/principles-of-the-treaty/
