Name                                           Ally Bijl-Brown

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Global warming and climate change are not issues of the future.
important because...                           They are current issues affecting the world and those living in it. As
                                               usual, this who are the worst off are disproportionately affected. As

                                               global citizens it is our duty to do what we can to make a start
                                               towards combatting our past actions leading to climate change. It is
                                               also an issue specific to New Zealand. One of our countries most
                                               shameful moments was John Key saying we would not be world
                                               leaders in environmental change, we would be “quick followers”.

                                               New Zealand has been known as a clean green country but it
                                               sometimes feels as though this is farce. I would love to see us as a
                                               small country who are in fact world leaders in environmentalism.
                                               Finally, it is part of our duty to be climate change leaders and to
                                               protect the environment we have in accord with Te Tiriti O Waitangi.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
