Name                                           Sean Liggins

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Human beings are inherently selfish, it is in our best interest to wave
important because...                           our hand and magically reassure ourselves that "everything will be
                                               fine in the future", but unless we take responsibility for our

                                               environment, everything will not be fine in the future. The earth will
                                               live on long after we make it inhospitable for us, so as a species our
                                               only evolutionary countdown clock is intrinsically tied to our
                                               envionment and how we protect it. We strive all our lives to make a
                                               positive contributon to society, but if as a society we are not striving

                                               to protect the things most important and innately linked to our
                                               continued existence and ability to thrive and be happy, then what
                                               the hell are we prioritising in its place? We need to take
                                               responsibility instead of passing the buck and reassuring ourselves it
                                               will all be fine in the future, or that it's someone elses problem.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
