Name                                           Jessie Hewland

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change is a threat to all lives on planet earth, including our
important because...                           own. By continuing to march forward with disregard for
                                               environmental state, we are writing our own extinction story. The

                                               thing is, industrialization and environmentalism aren't collectively
                                               exhaustive. Industry can carry on in a sustainable way and we can
                                               protect our planet at the same time, it just requires that people are
                                               educated and motivated to put in that extra effort to make the
                                               industries environmentally sustainable. A law like this would provide

                                               for that motivation. Currently the whole world, the WHOLE WORLD, is
                                               paying a steep price for the recklessness of those profiting in things
                                               like agriculture, plastic production, car sales etc. Do those people
                                               realize that in a world where we struggle to breath the air in the
                                               atmosphere and people are dying of starvation all over the planet

                                               that money isn't going to mean shit? We have got to stop. People
                                               have known that for a long long time. Make the critical change
                                               before it's too late, if we haven't passed that point already....

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking any approach to
                                               ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as hard-hitting as

                                               possible. This target should be reached by reducing our own
                                               emissions and not by using international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I would support a group of experts that would be involved in routine
                                               decisions around this sort of thing, there should defiantly be
                                               someone with experience and training in the loop but I think it should
                                               always be kept in mind that the people can never be truly spoken
                                               for. Weighted decisions should still include a public opinion and go

                                               through a process where the public can make submissions. Being
                                               such a pressing issue, activities and decisions made by the
                                               commission should always be available to the public. This is OUR
                                               country, it's not the governments country. Everyone lives here and
                                               we're all just people. We have a right to access information on

                                               decisions made about issues which literally threaten our lives.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               This is something the world has never faced before. Reviews and
                                               changes need to be routinely incorporated into this plan because we
                                               might need to learn as we go how we can best manage this issue.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honors the treaty of
                                               Waitangi and ensures a just transition for workers and communities.
                                               The cost that this law implies cannot be carried by most individuals,

                                               the government should assist anywhere and everywhere needed
                                               throughout the country to help this change happen without the
                                               financial devastation of the people.

Further comments
