Name                                           David Langley

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Despite living in Australia, I often visit your lovely country. The
important because...                           problem with climate change is that those in power don't seem to
                                               believe it is happening. But then they are forced by vested interests

                                               to say the things they say and make the decisions they do. Shame
                                               on them for not showing that they can actually think for themselves
                                               and for the good of the world. We cannot go on living the way we do
                                               we want to leave a world for our kids to enjoy just like the world we
                                               were born into. Carbon emission targets need to be set and quickly. I

                                               get even worried about setting goals with dates like 2050 when the
                                               target dates should be 2020 or even yesterday. 2050 target dates
                                               are merely brought on by vested interests seeing the writing on the
                                               wall but wishing to makes as much profit they can before they are
                                               forced to change their ways.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050, but it should be way sooner. I also
                                               support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to
                                               reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we should aim for
                                               negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases
                                               to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by reducing our

                                               own emissions and not by using international carbon credits.
                                               International carbon credits are a joke and are just a way to fob off
                                               any change.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               And probably the best example of the stupidity for a country which

                                               relies on hydro-power so much that the Wellington Council saw fit to
                                               tell complete lies when it removed the ELECTRIC buses from the
                                               streets claiming that they would replace them with "electric" buses
                                               (which as history will show don't work anyway - the Wrightspeed
                                               project). In the mean time they replaced them with second hand

                                               "gas guzzlers". If ever there was a decision made because of vested
                                               interests then this was up there with the best.
