Name                                           Linda Pears

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We can avoid the worst of dangerous climate change if we act now.
important because...                           We can reduce emissions and enhance our quality of life.
                                               It’s also about adapting to climactic changes that are already locked

                                               in, and doing our part to help other nations, especially our vulnerable
                                               Pacific neighbours.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               International scientific consensus is that our climate is changing. As

                                               a result of human
                                               activities, atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide and other
                                               greenhouse gases, such as
                                               methane, are now higher than they have ever been in the last
                                               650,000 years. These

                                               gases trap the heat from the sun, and our planet is becoming
                                               warmer, which is
                                               causing our climate to change.
                                               New Zealand’s response has been woefully inadequate under
                                               previous governments,

                                               with excessive reliance on an economic instrument (the Emissions
                                               Trading Scheme)
                                               that has been progressively weakened.
