Name                                          Diana Walton

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I am a New Zealander currently in the UK, where we are
important because...                          experiencing a 30* heat wave. Last week I was in the Bordeaux area
                                              of France, famous wine area, where the entire region has suffered

                                              drastic and unseasonal hail storms which have virtually wiped out
                                              the entire grape crop, 2nd year running. Climate change is alive and
                                              well here and clearly experienced to be real.

                                              NZ is proposing, with its Zero Climate Act, what is needed

                                              throughout each individual country on our threatened planet. I
                                              wholeheartedly endorse this ambitious and potentially wide-ranging
                                              political initiative, and wait with anxiety its reception.

                                              May NZ show yet again its ability to see clearly into the future, and

                                              to ACT!

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
