Name                                           James Pearson

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Because...adapting to climate change is economically sensible,
important because...                           socially responsible and environmentally critical. Not only is climate
                                               change real, the ramifications of climate change are projected to get

                                               exponentially worse for our future. I don't mean this is in an overly
                                               dramatic way. I mean, the science is clear, so we should respond
                                               appropriately. Passing a law like the Zero Carbon Act is an incentive
                                               for innovative businesses to develop. Not only does New Zealand
                                               have an opportunity to maintain the health of its ecosystem and it's

                                               people, it has the chance to forge a new way of thinking about
                                               business. Low carbon is the way of the future, we should embrace it
                                               and thrive.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               New Zealand is a small place. We have the benefit of a diverse
                                               ecosystem, educated population and developed infrastructure. Our
                                               legacy is that of Kiwi ingenuity, Number 8 wire and testing EFTPOS. If
                                               any country can rise to the challenge of turning a negative into a
                                               positive, it's ours. Low carbon ideas, services and businesses

                                               developed in New Zealand will be spurred by the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               Kiwi ingenuity isn't magic and innovation isn't just about bright ideas,
                                               clever people and revelations. Innovation requires incentives that
                                               encourage people to rise to a challenge, take risks and think
                                               differently. Larger economies like the United States, China and even

                                               Australia will need help reducing their carbon in the future. They may
                                               even pay for it. So, why shouldn't Kiwis do something good for the
                                               sake of our people, our home and our neighbours?
