Name                                           Chris Morison

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Protection of the planet is everyone's responsibility, all over the
important because...                           world, and we all have to do our bit. If we all wait for someone else to
                                               do something then my children and grandchildren are destined for a

                                               bleak future. If the government of every country waits for other
                                               countries to do something then nothing will ever happen. New
                                               Zealand has a reputation to maintain, and because of that we have
                                               the opportunity to make a real statement in the world. We need to
                                               lead by example.


                                               New Zealand citizens and residents need the framework of a Zero
                                               Carbon Act to support and create alternatives to the status quo. We
                                               need the act to stimulate investment, funding and research to find
                                               solutions this ever increasing problem.


                                               History is watching us because the decisions we make now will shape
                                               the future of this planet. Doing anything less than EVERYTHING
                                               possible will be seen as a failure, as a missed opportunity to reverse
                                               the devastation we are causing to our climate. Our generation, and

                                               today's Governments need to be part of the solution, not a
                                               continuation of the problem.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it ensures a just
                                               transition for workers and communities; and avoids passing on the

                                               costs to future generations.
Further comments                               We need to think long term and big picture. Just because an

                                               particular activity or industry creates x % of our GDP or net export
                                               should not give that activity a free reign on our environment or
                                               climate, because those short-lived gains will be nothing in
                                               comparison to the losses which will accrued by future generations.
                                               This is a big problem and some of the solutions will hurt - but only in

                                               the short term.
