Name                                           Sarah Macfarlane

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change is the most important issue facing the world’s
important because...                           population as it impacts on every facet of human life and wellbeing,
                                               through ecological, economical, and social systems. Climate change

                                               will make pastoral farming more difficult in New Zealand, for
                                               example farmers in North Canterbury have already experienced
                                               prolonged droughts, leading to increased supplementary feed costs.
                                               Internationally crop yields are projected to decrease and malnutrition
                                               to increase. Availability of food and water will have economic

                                               implications not only for farm communities who could lose their
                                               livelihoods, but also for low-income populations ability to feed
                                               themselves, avoid infection and other indirect health impacts of
                                               climate change that flow on from agricultural effects.


                                               Māori already experience a health equity gap compared to non-
                                               Māori. This inequity will not only be compounded by climate change,
                                               but added to, given the strong cultural, social and economic links
                                               Māori have with the natural environment, including the high
                                               proportion of Māori working in the primary sector.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               New Zealand must take immediate action to reduce emissions to
                                               ease transition to a low emission economy and avoid negative health
                                               impacts. Particularly impacts on the most vulnerable communities

                                               including Māori, for whom lack of action will compound the equity
                                               gap of socio-economic and health outcomes.
