Name                                          Ryan Loader

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is important because it will
important because...                          help inspire other countries to make the same proactive shift
                                              towards carbon neutrality. I am proud of New Zealand's nuclear free

                                              commitement, but our claims of being "clean" and "green" are empty
                                              statements used only to entice tourists that don't have the full
                                              picture. I would feel much more comfortable promoting New Zealand
                                              to my friends abroad if we were to live the clean green sentiment,
                                              rather than simply advertising it.


                                              We are a small country, but we have been thought leaders in the
                                              past. We were the first country in the world to give woman the right
                                              to vote and as I mentioned prior, we have a strong stance on
                                              nuclear, I think we should be leading the environmental debate and

                                              once again "punching above our weight" on the global stage.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
