Name                                           Sophia Elder

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I don't want me or my future children to grown up in a world ravaged
important because...                           by extreme weather and air pollution induced by climate change. As
                                               a New Zealander, the environment, including the forests and oceans

                                               is very important to me and is integral in the kiwi way of life. Ocean
                                               acidification caused by rising levels of CO2 is already having massive
                                               negative impacts on our shellfish industry, an important provider of
                                               culturally important kai and income for our country. Rising sea levels
                                               caused by increased temperatures will a small island surrounded by

                                               sea like us even more than most other countries and many will lose
                                               their homes. I could go on about the impacts of carbon emissions
                                               that we will suffer from for pages and pages, because it will truly
                                               effect every aspect of our way of life in this (for now) beautiful
                                               country. Even if New Zealand going zero carbon will not make as big

                                               a change as a larger country doing this, we would be doing all we
                                               could to protect ourselves and future generations, while setting a
                                               precedent and a challenge for the rest of the world. It is our duty to
                                               be an environmentally conscious nation and to help others be one as
                                               well. Short term thinking is not an option. We need to fight for our

                                               clean, green country, and for a clean, green world as well.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
