Name                                           Sam Mayer

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I represent one of younger the generations that has inherited this
important because...                           issue of climate change, and one which will suffer the consequences
                                               if serious changes aren't made. I believe that the younger

                                               generations in NZ represent a shift in values, ideologies and political
                                               inclination. Part of this shift includes environment consideration,
                                               awareness, and a willingness to tackle climate change to the scale
                                               (and with the immediacy) required. This Act is one avenue by which
                                               we can truly make a difference, allowing changes to occur on a scale

                                               which is required to halt the rise in Carbon emissions. Generation
                                               Zero reflects our generation in a nutshell- a desire for change,
                                               creativity and innovation. This Act sends a powerful message that
                                               there is no time left for apathy. Changes are needed, and there is
                                               growing support to see this reflected more in Parliament. The Zero

                                               Carbon Act is important because it's a stepping stone for NZ to "up
                                               our game" in reducing environmental harm- one that can enable
                                               further (big) changes to happen. Let this Act be an example to all
                                               New Zealanders, and the rest of the world :)

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
