Name                                            Nicholas Kerr

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is New Zealand sits in an extremely unique position within the global
important because...                            stage. With a population still small enough to run unique programs
                                                that work for us! We need to stop playing big brother politics and

                                                mirroring countries like australia, brittain and the US for none of
                                                these governments are currently following a narative that supports
                                                our supposed core values of equality, quality of life, human rights
                                                and libiral and critical use of the scientific method. In fact
                                                government appears to be the only sector where the scientific

                                                method is completely thrown to the wolves, a system of slandour,
                                                deceit and popularity contests favoured instead. I say all of this
                                                because a zero carbon act dosent go far enough.. it will take a
                                                change in our culture.to make a real impact. Zero carbin is a real and
                                                extremely important step in the right direction however our rivers

                                                will still run rich with nitrogen run off, our oceans and food chain will
                                                still be full of plastic. We will still continue to over intensivly farm
                                                crops forsaking nutrition for commercial quantity and pour chemical
                                                laden waste down our drains. A climate comission is an imperitive
                                                but not only should they be looking at our carbon emmisions but

                                                every facet of our lives where we can reduce the harmfull impact we
                                                have on not only our environment but our own health and quality of
                                                life. Should it matter if farm and city run off is going to kill us? No, we
                                                should be proud of our home and our environment, live in wonder of
                                                our beautiful life giving rivers, learn to create not to destroy our

                                                native bush, our over stretched fisheries.. for most of things are put
                                                under strain not by nescessity but by absolute greed. We need to
                                                treat them with respect, not greed and this ever present desire to
                                                expand, grow more, make more. The Earth is a finite reasource at
                                                present. We have the power to change that. Atleast for our little

                                                corner of the world. New Zealand is poised, could and should become
                                                a beacon, an example for the rest of the world to follow.

Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
