Name                                          Montaine Gru

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Planet earth is the only one we have, protecting it is our shared duty.
important because...                          Let's not wait until it is too late.
                                              New Zealand is blessed for amazing landscape, breath taking

                                              mountains, fascinating wildlife and flora. It is cruel to damaged all
                                              those by being lazy taking actions today.
                                              Micro plastic from single use plastic can be found into the air we
                                              breathe, in the trees we grow. Hormones and harmful chemicals
                                              proven to be endocrine disruptor from daily products we use can be

                                              found in our lakes, river and tap water.
                                              Today we do not know how to face those 21st century issues.
                                              However, there is one simple thing that every country can do, and it
                                              is to aim to be 100% renewable energy based. We have the
                                              technology, and we have the ambition.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                              international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
