Name                                           valerie tomlinson

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I grew up in one of the countries where "winter" meant the season
important because...                           where snow lay permanently on the ground. Snow that fell after
                                               Halloween did not melt again until Easter. In 1980 the spring came

                                               and I said to myself "My that was a really warm winter!" But the next
                                               winter was even warmer. And winter kept arriving later and leaving
                                               earlier. In 1985 I first heard the term "global warming", and I said to
                                               myself "That's what's going on!". I still couldn't be sure if it was a
                                               climate fluctuation or something caused by humans, but I knew that

                                               the science had been around since the 1930s indicating that humans
                                               should be warming the planet. By the 1990s I was sure it was us
                                               causing it. But the climate deniers just got louder and more
                                               influential. They have delayed us from taking action for 30 years
                                               now. The winters I talked about have shortened to the point that

                                               freeze-up on my river averages multiple weeks later than it did when
                                               I was a kid, and break up of the ice happens weeks earlier, and snow
                                               can disappear from the ground in any month of the winter. I am old
                                               enough that even if we fix the problem now, I will never see "winter"
                                               again. It is permanently gone from my life. That is an emotional thing

                                               for me, but for other species it is life. If the climate changes, they
                                               die, and leave a permanent hole in the web of life. That means all of
                                               us lose not just seasons, but ecosystems. Some of which we may
                                               depend upon more than we think. We need to act now because we
                                               have already missed several boats. The longer we wait, the more

                                               boats we miss.
Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
