Name                                           Elise Jenkin

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I support the need for an actual climate law such as the Zero Carbon
important because...                           Act because it requires and should ensure continuous commitment to
                                               action on reducing carbon emissions regardless of what government

                                               is in power. Without a law for a specific target it is very difficult to
                                               keep up the action momentum long term if only short term policies
                                               are trialed for present situations. A long term goal must be 'set in
                                               concrete' to give stability on which people can focus and invest in.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible. This means aiming for negative levels of long-lived
                                               gases, while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This
                                               target should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by
                                               using international carbon credits. Partly due to our geographical

                                               position on the global map, I believe it is best for New Zealand to
                                               remain independent and invest in our own, not other countries' low
                                               carbon emissions.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions. I believe that the elected government at the time
                                               should take all responsibility of the final decisions made so that the

                                               Climate Commission can also act as an independent 'watchdog'.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               I believe this is a very important plan as the impacts of climate
                                               change through severe droughts and floods around New Zealand are
                                               already been felt making it clear that local and regional councils
                                               need to be involved with and supported by central Government in

                                               conjunction with the Climate Commission.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations. When an act is
                                               just and fair I believe it is more likely to be supported by a wider
                                               range of groups in society, gaining the required investment over the

                                               transitioning period and for the long term, thereby succeeding in
                                               reaching the ultimate target.

Further comments                               I support a climate law like the Zero Carbon Act which stays clear of
                                               a purely economy based system yet allows enough flexibility through
                                               government policy changes to adopt more advantageous
                                               technological solutions and innovative practices should they become
                                               available in the future.
