Name                                           Jill Whitmore

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It is crucially important that we act now to drastically lower or
important because...                           greenhouse gas emissions in order to slow the pace of global
                                               warming - which is the greatest threat to our future, the future of the

                                               human race as a civilised species, and the future of life on this
                                               planet.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
 Further comments                                 I believe that the schedule for reduction of greenhouse gases should
                                                  cover ALL greenhouse gases. I know that methane - the main

                                                  "ägricultural" ghg - has been bypassed from the ETS so far because it
                                                  is considered too difficult to deal with. I believe that this is certainly
                                                  not the case. There are many promising approaches to reducing
                                                  methane emissions from livestock:
                                                  1) An obvious one is to reduce the number of ruminant animals we

                                                  are farming. We are currently stocking our land too intensively and
                                                  causing massive degradation of our lands and waters as a
                                                  consequence. From all points of view - aesthetic, water quality,
                                                  landscape values, animal welfare and emissions reduction - we would
                                                  be well advised to push farmers to adopt organic farming methods

                                                  and reduce stocking levels. This would also have benefits for overall
                                                  and long-term farm productivity, and would result in NZ produce
                                                  earning a premium in international markets.
                                                  2) Research has shown that individual cows vary significantly in the
                                                  quantities of methane which they emit. This variance is of the order

                                                  of about 20%. Therefore breeding programmes should be begun
                                                  immediately (if they have not already been started) to breed lower-
                                                  emitting strains of cows and sheep.
                                                  3) Research has also shown that adding seaweed in small amounts
                                                  to the diets of cows and sheep, can massively reduce their methane
                                                  emissions. In the case of sheep, 5% seaweed added to their diet

                                                  resulted in reductions in methane emissions of 70% to 80%. (See
                                                  "Drawdown", edited by Paul Hawkens.) We already have a small
                                                  industry based in Paeroa, producing seaweed concentrates for
                                                  agricultural use. The ability to reduce ruminants' methane emissions
                                                  by feeding seaweed, offers opportunities for farmers and business

                                                  alike.
                                                  4. As a member of the NZ Tree Crops Association, I remember
                                                  reading articles in their newsletter dating back many years, with the
                                                  author (a leading member of the association) saying that the Central
                                                  Plateau region of the North Island is more suitable climatically as well

                                                  as with its soils, of supporting profitable cropping of nut trees
                                                  (chestnuts and walnuts) than of supporting profitable drystock
                                                  farming as is currently attempted. Obviously, encouraging a switch
                                                  in land use in this area from drystock to tree crops would have a
                                                  significant positive effect on our emissions profile as well as fixing

                                                  problems with water quality in the lakes of the area. The writer of
                                                  this article said that there is a world-wide shortage of supply for the
                                                  nut tree crops he mentioned.


The message has been sent from 122.59.85.184 (New Zealand) at 2018-07-09 11:26:08 on Chrome 67.0.3396.99
Entry ID: 1530
