Name                                          Charlie Glover

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Because I care about our planet and everything single thing that
important because...                          lives here, and we're currently doing a horrible job as guardians of
                                              the planet for the next generations. We need more than just

                                              individuals who care, we need the government to step up and do
                                              everything they can to make sure we work collectively to change the
                                              course we're on. We talk the "clean, green NZ" talk, now lets back it
                                              up with REAL emission reduction, and do something to earn that title.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                              There's always new research, and new ideas, let's not close the door
                                              on these.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations. We're borrowing

                                              this planet and we need to look after it. Not only that, the effects of
                                              climate change are felt most by those who are already struggling the
                                              most. Let's look after everyone and make a change.

Further comments
