Name                                          Nick Stanley

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is we must trust the science of climate change and alter our behaviour
important because...                          and economic system to reduce our use of (and reliance on) fossil
                                              fuels as quickly as possible. For too long, governments have

                                              indicated a desire to cut greenhouse gas emissions while taking very
                                              few real measures to ensure any such reductions occur.
                                              The impact of our actions on the climate will be felt long beyond this
                                              current moment, so it is imperative for future generations that we
                                              make the quickest possible transition to a post-carbon world. The

                                              costs may appear large but the benefits will be larger, and the cost
                                              of inaction will be higher still.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions have the greatest
                                              possible impact: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived

                                              gases, while reducing short-lived gases to very low, sustainable
                                              levels. We should reach this target by reducing our own emissions
                                              and not by using international carbon credits, which only offloads our
                                              responsibility and does not encourage innovation in finding new,
                                              beneficial ways to create, store, and use energy.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi, ensures a just transition for workers and communities, and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
