Name                                           Rosie Horn

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We have created situation that is making our planet have
important because...                           unpredictable weather, this means food security is going to be a
                                               major issue. Every thing living on this planet is going to suffer

                                               because of the actions of a minority. The west has created an
                                               unsustainable existence which the most disadvantaged are going to
                                               feel the full force of first.
                                               We have to act really fast to stop what we are doing and find better
                                               ways of living and ways of living together so there is a reasonable

                                               future for our children and grandchildren.
                                               We have to be legislated to value the environment, letting business
                                               self regulate is never going to work as business is about profit and no
                                               one is paying for the what they are taking. Although there will be
                                               many that feel the impact of others taking more than they should.

                                               Legislation that forces people and business to add in the value of the
                                               environment into their business model seems to be necessary to
                                               make important and fast changes to how we operate in this world.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
