Name                                           Annaliese Johnston

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It's essential that we act now, there is no spare planet and we are
important because...                           running out of time. New Zealand has some of the worst carbon
                                               emissions per capita in the OECD, and as a Pacific nation it's time we

                                               stood with our Pacific neighbours who have contributed so little to
                                               Climate Change but are bearing the brunt of its effects. It's essential
                                               that we enact this law so that doing our bit to prevent further climate
                                               change is speedy and not mired in political point scoring. This is a
                                               non partisan issue and we need our action and response to be non

                                               partisan and evidence based. It's time for us to step up.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations. We also know that

                                               the effects of climate change often impacts the most vulnerable the
                                               most, it is essential that we are assessing, mitigating and adapting to
                                               the effects of climate change and rising sea levels on the most
                                               vulnerable in New Zealand and the Pacific.

Further comments
