Name                                           jack bayley

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The use of fossil fuels is extremely damaging to the natural
important because...                           environmnt which also has many indirect affects on industry
                                               especially as global warming increses. One of these industries is the

                                               New Zealand Ski industry. As global warming increases we know
                                               weather patterns become more variable, in New Zealand the snow
                                               line will increase in eleveation subsatationaly having great effect on
                                               the new zealand ski industry as well as many other environmental
                                               factors.


                                               New Zealand is a maritime country with many of its major cities and
                                               towns situated on coastline. If sea level rise continues at the
                                               projected growth, we will face many problems with infrastructure and
                                               families will be forced to retreat which ultimatley is going to cost alot

                                               of money to combat. In my opinion, it would be easier to change a
                                               law which helps mitigate climate change and its effects rather then
                                               wait for the problem to occur and try to figure it out when it happens.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
