Name                                           Roger Reynolds

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I belong to the Baby Boomer generation. My generation more than
important because...                           any other has profited from overuse of the planet's limited resources,
                                               has polluted our environment, and threatened the survival of many

                                               species - ultimately even our own. Climate change induced by
                                               human activity especially over the past 50 years (the period of my
                                               adult life) has been our legacy to future generations. I believe the
                                               this is the time for urgent action, and that members of my
                                               generation have a moral duty to speak up - to avoid further

                                               despoliation of the environment, to mitigate where possible the
                                               existing damage, and where necessary to pay our share of the costs
                                               associated with these actions. It can no longer be an argument that
                                               our economic wellbeing is more important than protecting the
                                               environment - economic wellbeing will be meaningless in the face of

                                               increasing effects of climate change (the earliest evidence of which
                                               we are already experiencing in more ferocious and frequent storm
                                               systems, droughts, fires and global warming etc). If we don't start
                                               now, my generation - that has contributed so much to the problem -
                                               will be let off free as it will be too late for us to make our

                                               contributions to reducing climate change - a gross unfairness to
                                               future generations. Also if we defer action, the costs will be far
                                               greater - both the cost of climate-mediated storm and drought, and
                                               the cost of amelioration.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and definitely not
                                               by using international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
