Name                                            Nicholas Harris

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is If you think mycoplasma-bovis is serious, you'd better look down the
important because...                            road. We need to go all-in on carbon emissions and climate change
                                                or it'll be more than just our economy going off the cliff.


                                                I have three children. I know their world will be different than mine,
                                                but I hope to salvage some stability, safety and prosperity for them. I
                                                wish that we would stop borrowing from their future to sustain the
                                                pointless luxuries of our society.

Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                                international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

                                                I think that NZ's adaptation will benefit from confident leadership
                                                from central government. I think the process needs to be framed as

                                                an opportunity rather than an unfortunate necessity. Leading the
                                                social change is critical; big or small, we will all have a part to play in
                                                the transition away from our emissions-based economy. To get the
                                                most out of everyone, especially from business/capital, we'll need
                                                committed leadership with cross-party support, providing clear

                                                direction and certainty about future policy settings, and an eye for
                                                the upside risks. I think this will be our best chance of succeeding
                                                quickly. The Zero Carbon Act needs to set this up for our politicians
                                                to play their part.

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                                The deadline to begin this change is long past. The Baby Boomers

                                                couldn't bring themselves to face it and now, at the final hour, their
                                                influence is waning. Younger generations know we can't afford their
                                                comfortable and selfish inertia. Its our time to take charge of the
                                                future.
