Name                                           Caleb Edwards

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Consumer choice is taking too long to effect meaningful change
important because...                           across the industries which need to drastically reduce emissions in
                                               order to stem sea level rise. It is no longer a question of "if", but

                                               when and how much. Sea level rise presents the most formidable
                                               challenge to how we live in recorded history but because the change
                                               is slow it is being denied. Emissions are eroding the natural wonders
                                               of coral reefs and high places, through ocean acidification increased
                                               temperatures, a little every day. I want my children to be able to ski

                                               or see reefs that aren't dead, but right now the likelihood isn't
                                               looking good. They seem more likely to see a tornado or
                                               unseasonable snow in the Far North. Our country needs strong
                                               leadership on this issue. Industry will not regulate itself into smaller
                                               profits. Please be ambitious about our future.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
