Name                                          Jaime Grimmett

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It's critical to the survival of planet, and an opportunity for NZ to step
important because...                          out on a global stage in an area that we are known for - clean, green,
                                              and leading the way on environmental issues. There is an

                                              opportunity to strengthen our reputation, but also our skills and
                                              know-how by investing in development of non-carbon emission
                                              reduction. As other countries make progress on reducing their
                                              carbon footprint, NZ will be focused on reducing the impact of one of
                                              our major contributors, methane. This can be a headstart for NZ to

                                              create technologies that will be in demand in the future as methane
                                              proportionally becomes a larger issue for other countries. For NZ to
                                              succeed in this space would be a major win both for NZ's physical
                                              environment, and also our economic development.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
