Name                                          Maree Limpus

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I love our earth and it's people and I want to prevent loss and
important because...                          suffering. 12 years ago I went to an international conference in
                                              Europe on education for sustainability and one of the things that

                                              really struck me there was the potential for human suffering and
                                              warfare as resources became scarce and disasters more common as
                                              a result of man made climate change. I want to live my life doing
                                              what I can to prevent this from happening and am happy making
                                              lifestyle changes to be part of this. I so think NZ could proudly join

                                              other leading countries in this area rather than being a follower of
                                              those that refuse to look at embracing positive change. There are
                                              many places doing amazing things in this field, lets join them and
                                              lead the way. I think doing this would only add to the value of what
                                              our country can offer on the world stage, it would lead to gains not

                                              loss. I want us to be brave. I think this is an exciting challenge to
                                              embrace because we can achieve and we can make a difference.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
