Name                                           Bev Smith

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I support a climate law like the Zero Carbon Act. It is important
important because...                           because the winds of change has finally widened to a realization that
                                               if we don't act now to reduce carbon emissions, then generations to

                                               come will suffer for the extravagance of our generation and those
                                               before us. I strongly believe that humans have the capacity to right
                                               the learning from our own expansion and placing this planet into
                                               imbalance by our action and growth.... but it requires everyone to
                                               get on board to see the vision.... even little New Zealand.... even

                                               though it is a global problem. Some see things as they are and ask:
                                               "how can we, as such a small country, make a difference?".... I see
                                               things as they could be and say.... "Why not take a lead.... the sands
                                               are shifting and I feel and support this global movement to not wait
                                               any longer to put in actions to turn back the thermometer".

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions. This will hold any changing governments to the same
                                               vision.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               Especially as science and new learnings bring about updated
                                               knowledge.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations. Communication to
                                               educate workers and inform and include in the solution being a key
                                               strategy.

Further comments                               This is ambitious and super important... With thanks for your support
                                               to make this happen.
