Name                                           Diane Sutherland

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The repercussions of climate change are occurring here, and
important because...                           globally, now. We have already failed as a country, and as a global
                                               community to act fast enough when science has been telling us for

                                               decades that changes needed to be urgently made - there is no more
                                               time to delay! I want my children and grandchildren to have a future
                                               where their very survival is not under threat. It is time for strong
                                               leadership and ambitious commitment to move forward in a way that
                                               ensures the well being of all people and the planet. Anything less is

                                               to seal the fate of generations to come! I am a teacher and I do not
                                               want look future generations in the eye any more with a sense of
                                               shame about the world we are passing on to them.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. This target should be reached by reducing
                                               our own emissions and not by using international carbon credits.I

                                               also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to
                                               reduce emissions are as impactful as possible.Net zero emissions
                                               goal should be across all greenhouse gases (including CO2 and
                                               methane).

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice but also has "some
                                               teeth" in ensuring it's advice is followed through with successive

                                               governments. It must be transparent, with annual published reports
                                               on progress, promoting public engagement and political
                                               accountability.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act
                                               that sets a clear direction to local government and helps co-ordinate
                                               the response across different sectors and including iwi and hapu.

                                               This must also include adaptation for our neighbors in the Pacific who
                                               are so very vulnerable. They have contributed least to the causes of
                                               climate change, are the most vulnerable, and have the least
                                               resources to respond.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
                                               I

Further comments                               It is time for N.Z. to lead again!!. It is time for the country to come
                                               together and say -YES - we can do this - we can assure future
                                               generations that we are doing all we can to mitigate further
                                               humanitarian and environmental disaster. This will take inspired,
                                               ambitious, knowledgeable and moral commitment by leaders and the

                                               community - and ensuring strong and appropriate bills are passed -
                                               please make this one of them!!
