Name                                           Carla Drake

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I am extremely concerned about the changes in our climate that I
important because...                           have witnessed for a long time now by watching the sea encroaching
                                               and drowning parts of our coasts, which even thirty years ago had

                                               human habitation and this looks likely to continue at greater speed
                                               as more and greater parts of both polar icecaps melt through
                                               growing air pollution and deforestation. It's also extremely
                                               concerning to see the pollution that is created by fuel emissions from
                                               trucks and older cars and the seeming lack of concern, since we

                                               were told in the 1980s that there would be emission controls for all
                                               vehicles in place by 1988! We are still waiting! I am so concerned for
                                               the many problems lying ahead of future generations, which without
                                               real action now will only become greater and perhaps even beyond
                                               repair! Please ACT NOW for all and especially our young people, the

                                               future generations!

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               I would like to praise you GenerationZero people for taking these
                                               extremely important matters into your hands and I sincerely hope

                                               you will be listened to by this government, which at least seems to
                                               be moving in the right direction. Please keep them on track!!
