Name                                            Pene Burton Bell

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It is woeful that New Zealand, which has the audacity to call itself
important because...                            clean and green, is underperforming so badly compared to other
                                                countries. This is where government policy on a three year election

                                                cycle has got us. We are smart, we are agile, many things work in
                                                our favour. We can, and must do better. I strongly believe that this
                                                Act must be robust to withstand it's corruption by political
                                                interference. I think government should instead focus on how to
                                                make the best of low-carbon and carbon-reducing opportunities and

                                                invest in these to drive the nation forward economically,
                                                scientifically, for citizens and for protection of our beautiful planet.

Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                                international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                 Justice is a tricky word, so is mitigation. To me, mitigation is about
                                                more than plugging the dyke. It is important that the nation acts

                                                justly to achieve responsible climate outcomes. Merely responding to
                                                climate change by raising sea walls and similar actions is not
                                                enough, we need to take action now to prevent emissions getting
                                                worse. That is what is responsible for future generations, and for the
                                                poor who are often most affected as they have less choices. To me,

                                                this will meet climate justice for our citizens. However, consideration
                                                also needs to be given to our nation's global impact (even if we are
                                                small), as we are global citizens too. The act should consider this in
                                                its consideration of climate justice.

Further comments                                The act must do more than we currently are. It must contain
                                                definitive and legally binding climate targets, and result is
                                                transparent planning and reporting, that are made publicly available.

                                                An independent climate commission will ensure that politicians don't
                                                get a free-for-all.
                                                Excluding short-lived green house gases such as methane is not
                                                acceptable to me. There is technology out there, indications are it is
                                                cheap, each of us (including livestock owners) need to take the steps

                                                we can. (I am willing to eat my 4% of seaweed too!). Technologies
                                                should not be approved if they trade one greenhouse gas for
                                                another, or cause other grievous environmental damage. We only
                                                know of one planet we can currently live on, it will be some
                                                generations before we can inhabit another even if we find one....
