Name                                           Grace Ashcroft

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need this law because it will reduce carbon emmisions that cause
important because...                           global warming which has had a serious impact on earth natural
                                               environment and hopefully this act with encourage other countries to

                                               reduce or eliminate their own carbon emissions, we will be leading
                                               the world to a better future. Large businesses and corporations
                                               pollutions have gone unchecked for too long and should be held
                                               responsible for their role in global warming, this law will force them
                                               to examine that role and change for the better.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               We are in a mass extinction right now because of the worlds
                                               dependance on means of production that produce pollution and
                                               greenhouse gases. I would like the next generations to continue to

                                               experience the wonders of nature and that will not happen if global
                                               warming continues at this rate. Passing this law would be a huge
                                               step for this country towards a better and more sustainable future
                                               and will set an example for the rest of the world.
                                               I would not like my contact information included in this submission to

                                               be released the public or published for any reason to prevent contact
                                               by any unsolicited people.
