Name                                          Joel Vandereburg

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is it commits government to acting on those issues which affect the
important because...                          degradation of our earth. It shows government recognizes the
                                              importance of the issue and is willing to aggressively act on it -

                                              indicating that we all have a responsibility to strongly addressing the
                                              issues around climate change.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This includes
                                              CO2 and methane. This target should be reached by reducing our
                                              own emissions and not by using international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions. The Government should have to publicly respond to
                                              and provide rationale when it deviates from the Commission's

                                              advice. The Climate Commission should also act as an independent
                                              watchdog, publishing progress reports and highlighting problems.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                              The Government should construct and put into action a National
                                              Adaptation Plan with clear objectives and goals.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations. It should cover
                                              adapting to the impacts of climate change, including matters of
                                              public health and human welfare.

Further comments
