Name                                           Barbara Mountier

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I fully support the introduction of this comprehensive new law.
important because...                           The Zero Carbon Act is more than timely. The last government did
                                               not "get" climate change and so made stupid arrangements that

                                               failed to bring any progress on climate change. Great Britain has had
                                               a relevant act since 2008 so has already established many
                                               requirements and processes. New Zealand needs to catch up as
                                               quickly as possible. It is heartening that big businesses are now
                                               taking climate change seriously. I would say that public opinion is

                                               ready for learning and changing in this matter as we have done on
                                               several important matters in recent decades.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act
                                               but not at the cost of actually reducing emissions.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
                                               It seems obvious that plans for new jobs producing renewable
                                               sources of energy are urgently needed to provide for those now
                                               working with fossil fuels. That will require a willingness for

                                               businesses and organisations and territorial authorities to invest in
                                               new industries.

Further comments                               I am grateful and impressed that a younger generation are taking
                                               leadership in this matter. As a country we have been very slow to
                                               grasp the urgency of climate change. It is quite shocking to realise
                                               that it was first made known to the world in the 1980s. We need to
                                               make up for lost time.
