Name                                           Frances Palmer

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is is important NOW because our generations are the last in the history
important because...                           of humanity who have the chance to potentially limit the speed of,
                                               and degree of devastation, ecological destruction and dislocation of

                                               countless communities across the globe. Few people appear able to
                                               get their heads around this, but I have worked as a relief worker in 3
                                               countries and am haunted both by the past and the future that
                                               anthropogenic climate change is beginning to create. A law like the
                                               Zero Carbon Act is required everywhere so that all relevant decisions

                                               (including those affected by the RMA) take potential climate impacts
                                               into account, considering medium and long term effects, not only
                                               immediate costs and potential inconveniences of innovative change
                                               and adjustment.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing NZ's own emissions rather than
                                               reliance on international carbon credits; ie domestic abatement

                                               rather than exporting our liabilities and procrastinating on mitigation
                                               action required at home (as response required to dealing with plastic
                                               refuse).

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions. Their findings and government responses must be
                                               publicly transparent.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

                                               This, however, should not be seen as a substitute for radical
                                               mitigation work, as seems to be the view of some, who do not
                                               understand that adaptation to climate change will ONLY be
                                               manageable to the degree that massive mitigation is successful.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               To maximise support for the urgent changes required,it will

                                               necessary to accompany this act with quality public education via
                                               the media, explaining via comprehensible advocates and visually
                                               clear flow charts etc, the problem facing us (and the layers of
                                               impacts if ignored), and the practical options at global, national,
                                               community and individual levels to try to roll back dangerous

                                               feedback loops. Nations including NZ rallied their populations for
                                               war, time and time again. Now we need leadership to rally against a
                                               more insidious, harder to nail down 'enemy'/threat, with a new model
                                               of security and new models of affirmative action.
