Name                                            Dean Lister

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is There are many important reasons why this Zero Carbon Act is so
important because...                            important:
                                                1. Atmospheric pollution by any dioxin gasses damages the very thin

                                                layer that protects all life on this planet. The exertion of energy
                                                released from the sun that will destroy all life if the atmosphere is
                                                damaged in anyway, i.e depletion of the ozone layer is affecting life
                                                in the Polar Regions, increasing skin cancer rates.
                                                2. Air pollution, any dioxins whether its carbon dioxide, sulphur

                                                dioxide or nitrogen dioxide (emitted by burning fossil fuels) is an
                                                cancer causing pollutant that effect all animals on earth, including
                                                humans. Excessive amounts in the air we breathe it increasing the
                                                cancer rates in healthy people, just by breathing it in.
                                                3. Ocean Acidification; excessive Carbon Dioxide in our atmosphere

                                                is mixing into the water vapour in clouds i.e rain which is then
                                                dropping back into the earth, rivers then sea, and directly into the
                                                sea. This is causing the PH level of the ocean to become more
                                                acidified. This effects all marine life, fish, seashells, coral etc.. a food
                                                source which humans are dependent on.

                                                4. Accelerating the natural climate change, this is an event which
                                                happens naturally on earth, the last natural climate change was the
                                                Ice Age which was around 28,000 years ago. Naturally the Ice Age is
                                                ‘thawed’ by volcanic activity over thousands of years, the earth can
                                                then balance the carbon emissions by the cycle of naturally filtrating.

                                                With human activities (anthropogenic) since the Industrial Era the
                                                natural emission of carbon has increased many thousands of time
                                                more. This is disrupting the natural cycle of climate change for the
                                                worst. Everyone who has done Year 9 science understands that
                                                adding more dioxins (Carbon, Nitrogen, methane) into the

                                                atmosphere becomes a blanket where its traps in solar radiation
                                                causing global warming. Earths next natural climate change of the
                                                next cooling (Ice Age) is expected to be in the next 50,000 years.
                                                With humans continuing to add more dioxins into out atmosphere
                                                this natural cycle will outweigh or prolong. Effectively the earth will

                                                continue to warm and we will see many species go extinct.
                                                5. Economic Impact, as the oceans warm the hurricane seasons are
                                                increasing, the droughts are increasing, the rain is intensifying
                                                causing more flooding. This is all impacting everyone worldwide.
                                                Costs of environmental disasters are increasing and will get to a

                                                point where Insurance Companies won’t insure certain countries. As
                                                the oceans warm this also affects the marine life causing mass
                                                extinction of coral reefs, fish and all other marine life that need to
                                                live within a temperate rage. Fishing industry is effected, tourism is
                                                affected all economically.
                                                6. Future generations, would anyone be at all happy about anyone

                                                dumping their rubbish on your back yard then setting it on fire? I
                                                doubt it! Well this is what humans are doing to the earth.
                                                This is not what our children want to live in, a world that pollution is
                                                less important than money!
                                                A world where our children will only see extinct animals in pictures. A

                                                world where they would have to wear a mask to go outside, as the
                                                dioxins level is too high to breath naturally. A world where our
                                                children wont know what sea-fish tastes like, etc...
                                                NO!! AND IT IS UTTERLY WRONG TO LEAVE THIS WORLD WORST OFF
                                                THEN WHAT THEIR PREVIOUS GENERATIONS HAVE HAD!

                                                “WE DON’T INHERIT THE EARTH FROM OUR ANCESTORS, WE
                                                BORROW IT FROM OUR CHILDREN”
Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
