Name                                           Cameron Loader

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I am only 24 years old, pretty young by the standards of most. When
important because...                           I think about the future there are many scary decisions and moments
                                               ahead. I often think about whether or not I will have kids, and I

                                               usually come to the conclusion that I do eventually want kids. If I
                                               want my kids to grow up in a world which is healthy, and whole, and
                                               anything like it is now, then changes need to be made now, not later.
                                               I read a quote a while back and it has well and truly stuck with me
                                               "Take care of the earth, it was not given to you by your parents, it

                                               was loaned to you by your children" - This really hammered home
                                               the point to me that I needed to change what I was doing in regards
                                               to the environment. We need a law like the Zero Carbon Act so the
                                               effects of climate change can hopefully be slowed down (or
                                               reversed!?!?! (wishful thinking probably)) and our future generations

                                               can enjoy the spectacular world that we live in today.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits. As well as reducing emissions we must
                                               aim to transfer to a more sustainable and efficient economy which
                                               will continue to improve the lives of New Zealanders with the
                                               application and development of technology.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
