Name                                           Tatsuya Ito Horrobin

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is although the argument is that climate change exists (for which I fully
important because...                           agree, believe and support ) I believe that in and of itself is irrelevant
                                               to the more fundamental need to take care of the environment. For

                                               example a sane person wouldn't place their family in a garage while
                                               the car engine is still going with all the doors and windows closed
                                               because everyone would die and it would be suicidal, because the
                                               environment is being made too toxic to survive. Therefore why would
                                               the logic be any different just because the environment is bigger and

                                               we all won't immediately die? We only have one environment and
                                               planet.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2030. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits. Furthermore we should work towards
                                               removing carbon from the atmosphere and hydrocarbons from the
                                               ocean, by utilizing existing and creating new technologies and

                                               methods to that end. For example planting coral reefs and ocean
                                               farming, as well as increasing trees and improving farming and
                                               construction methods.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                                 I believe that in order for this to be achievable, it must be made
                                                 mandatory for all new builds, rented buildings, schools and other

                                                 public and semi public structures (such as churches which are not
                                                 heritage buildings) and car park areas to be fitted with solar panels
                                                 as reasonably practicable and possible. This would not only be future
                                                 proofing for the event where potentially emission fuel powered
                                                 vehicles will become obsolete, but also in case of natural disasters

                                                 such as earthquakes, because there is no guarantee that an
                                                 earthquake won't occur in winter and that the infrastructure will
                                                 remain intact. Furthermore eventually automation and other
                                                 technologies would potentially be in further demand and in order to
                                                 remain competitive as a country it is vital that we start thinking

                                                 about tomorrow today. It would also be worthy to note that New
                                                 Zealand's main source of electricity comes from hydroelectric dams.
                                                 Therefore would not climate change affect our source of electricity
                                                 production if the damage levels become too low to produce sufficient
                                                 power? Wouldn't it therefore make sense to invest in a potential

                                                 alternative as insurance to that end? If the impact or affect it could
                                                 have on power companies be a concern, then why not come up with
                                                 a system similar to crypto currencies, company shares or credit
                                                 system that can only be used for paying for electricity as opposed to
                                                 paying people money for power produced from solar or wind energy.


                                                 On a different note wouldn't increasing taxes (such as GST) on
                                                 products with high carbon footprints (such as imported goods or
                                                 those who produce high amounts of greenhouse gases such as
                                                 methane from live stock) and lowering taxes on those with low or
                                                 negative carbon footprints (such as domestically produced foodstuffs

                                                 such as fruit, vegetables and honey which are essentially byproducts
                                                 of plants which remove carbon from the atmosphere). This could also
                                                 create opportunities for entrepreneurship and encourage
                                                 investments in these areas if products and byproducts of processes
                                                 that remove or decrease carbon from the atmosphere are made

                                                 cheaper and those that increase carbon are made more expensive
                                                 unless they are offset or controls have been put in place. Perhaps
                                                 excluding products and byproducts that benefit or from processes
                                                 that benefit the environment are excluded from export and import
                                                 taxes, then we may also see further growth and investment in these

                                                 areas?

                                                 My ideas are not perfect and many will disagree, but I hope that by
                                                 trying and presenting them I may have made a little bit of a
                                                 difference. I believe the best way for this bill and others like it to be

                                                 supported are to prove that it not only benefits us and the
                                                 environment short and long term, but also that it could be profitable,
                                                 create jobs and improve our capabilities as a country in terms of
                                                 entrepreneurship and technology and development. I hope that our
                                                 country will become the best and beat the others and win back our

                                                 clean and green title.
