Name                                           John King

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is it offers an opportunity to redefine the role of soil in farming
important because...                           practices.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions. I suggest renown retired Australian CSIRO scientist
                                               Walter Jehne chair this commission. After all we want the best,
                                               someone independent of NZ politics and a great communicator to
                                               explain to the public outcomes of the Commission's work.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act
                                               providing it includes soil carbon sequestration as well as trees. As

                                               climate heats up trees will become a less reliable source due to fire
                                               as is what is currently happening in California, USA.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for farmers, farm workers and
                                               rural communities; and avoids passing on the costs to future
                                               generations.

Further comments                               This initiative must also include the role of soil for storing carbon by
                                               taking into account the multitude of public good benefits including

                                               reducing the frequency and severity of droughts and floods through
                                               improving hydrological cycles with higher carbon content, not just in
                                               topsoil but further down soil profiles. Overseas research focusing on
                                               benefits continues to be ignored in New Zealand by the science
                                               community.


                                               Currently our understanding of soil carbon is poor in New Zealand
                                               being based on modelling rather than actual data as Professor Louis
                                               Shipper's review of soil carbon showed last year. There are many
                                               benefits to our farmers from higher carbon soils including longer

                                               growing seasons, less irrigation, and less erosion. Emphasis needs to
                                               shift from reviewing industry level (dairy, sheep, beef, crop) to what
                                               farm practices (grazing, tillage, fallow) influence soil carbon
                                               dynamics which is a current flaw in NZ research and commentary.


                                               The role of transpiring grasslands and pastures to mitigate
                                               greenhouse gases and heat dynamics also need to be explored. It
                                               seems the water molecule has greater flexibility to absorb heat than
                                               CO2 and this effects needs to be explained for the benefit of farmers
                                               and GHG emissions.
