Name                                           Matthew Brennan

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Global warming threatens our quality of life and possibly our very
important because...                           existence.


                                               There is no greater issue to be addressed at this time by humanity
                                               and by New Zealand, who relies upon it's identity as environmentally
                                               friendly.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission.

Adaptation

Climate justice

Further comments                               New Zealand is known for innovating and we must adapt. We have
                                               relied heavily on animal agriculture but this is a leading cause of
                                               climate change. Plant based meats are projected to become cheaper

                                               than animal meats in the next 5 years, and there will be huge
                                               demand for them given the bad press of climate change and the
                                               price reduction. So even for economic reasons the time to transition
                                               away from animal agriculture is now. We cannot stay stuck in the
                                               mud.


                                               We need to provide farmers support to transition from animal
                                               agriculture to other forms. Yes New Zealand has had an identity for
                                               being a dairy producing country. However first and foremost we are
                                               seen as eco-friendly and innovative. Globally, more and more people
                                               are seeing this is as a conflict of interests.


                                               We can keep our identity as eco-friendly, and innovative. Adpating to
                                               the changes needed. That's our real identity. Not milking cows. Being
                                               innovative and adapting.


                                               One of many available alternatives for farmers could be to transtition
                                               to growing medicinal or recreational marijuana. These crops have a
                                               restorative effect on land polluted by animal agriculture.Also this is
                                               an industry that is growing internationally. New Zealand with it's
                                               clean green image could be strong in this market.


                                               We also need to move away from fossil fuels. Install solar panels in
                                               roofing. Have a battery system. Have compost collection (organic
                                               waste in pastic rubbish bags produces greenhouse gases).


                                               This issue affects us all and must be tackled with urgency.
