Name                                           Jeremy Barnes

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change has the potential to be truly devastating to
important because...                           everything we hold dear.
                                               I have faith in the adaptability of humanity and our ability to

                                               innovate our way out of problems.
                                               However, as a developed country with many environmental benefits
                                               that other countries do not have we must make the transition to a
                                               carbon neutral economy ASAP. If we cannot do it, then we cannot
                                               expect the developing world to do it. If we don't all make this

                                               transition, then we are all screwed.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               I would love to see some pre-emptive education on what the likely
                                               consequences of climate change will in terms of human society.

                                               Specifically, the mass human migration that will occur as parts of the
                                               world go underwater and become uninhabitable.
                                               This is a problem where we have no real excuses if this gets out of
                                               hand. We have known about the seriousness of this for decades, we
                                               know what the major causes are, we know what we need to do. If

                                               this spirals out of control then it's our own damn fault and the planet
                                               is probably better off without us
