Name                                           Nicholas Beattie

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We have an obligation as New Zealanders and as citizens of the
important because...                           world to protect and preserve the environment and its biodiversity.
                                               New Zealand is one of the highest emitters per capita of greenhouse

                                               gases in the OECD. This is contributing to global warming, rising
                                               seas, extinction of biota, climate change refugees, food and water
                                               insecurity, pollution and conflict. It is imperative that the New
                                               Zealand Parliament enacts this law to prevent further crisis and
                                               ensure that we move toward a zero carbon future.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to minimal levels. This target should
                                               be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions. The commission should adopt a transdisciplinary
                                               research approach and work with other disciplines, members of the
                                               public, iwi and hapu, and the private sector when appropriate to
                                               produce more comprehensive and robust research and advice.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations of people and all
                                               other biodiversity.

Further comments                               I would also advise the government to amend the Resource
                                               Management Act 1991 to allow regional councils power to make
                                               rules and regulations regarding discharge of greenhouse gases and
                                               the effects of their discharge on climate change. This would involve

                                               amending sections 70A, 70B, 104E and 104F. It would also include
                                               amending section 5(a) which would remove the part which states,
                                               "(excluding minerals)". This would mean sustainable management
                                               includes effective management of our minerals as well as other
                                               natural and physical resources.


                                               The Building Act 2004 should also be amended to enforce green
                                               building materials, designs and promotion of carbon neutral buildings
                                               and landscapes. For further information please refer to
                                               www.carbonlandscape.com/


                                               The enactment of the Zero Carbon Act along with amendments to
                                               other acts (such as those mentioned here) is imperative so they
                                               collectively work together rather than in conflict to achieve a zero
                                               emission New Zealand. New Zealand has an opportunity to reclaim

                                               the title of 'clean and green' and provide an environmentally
                                               sustainable future for the world which we can lead. The New Zealand
                                               Parliament must pass this bill to help secure New Zealand and the
                                               worlds future.
