Name                                           Kern Mangan-Walker

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need to have a competitive economy in the 21st century that
important because...                           takes into account the opportunity presented by a transition to a low
                                               carbon economy. We are an example to other countries with our

                                               clean-green image that sets a standard for climate action and a
                                               domino that needs to fall on the path towards a low carbon world.
                                               We owe it to our descendants and to people experiencing the climate
                                               crisis around the world to take responsible, meaningful and
                                               pragmatic action that puts our society on track towards net zero

                                               fossil fuel emissions. This needs to happen in line with the modelling
                                               and predictions of the worlds top climate scientists who state that we
                                               need to start bringing down global emissions before 2020 and reach
                                               zero net emissions by 2050 - if we are to have any hope of ensuring
                                               global temperature rise stays below 1.5 degrees Celsius or even 2

                                               degrees Celsius.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
