Name                                           Colin Looser

Email



Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is New Zealand is a privileged country. We continue to benefit from our
important because...                           high-carbon lifestyles while shirking our responsibility to act on
                                               climate change, at the expense of our Pacific neighbours, others

                                               around the world, and our international credibility. My hope is that
                                               the Zero Carbon Act can provide stable, sustained political
                                               momentum to establish then lead us on the pathway to a carbon
                                               neutral future.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050, ideally much earlier. I also support taking

                                               a science-based approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions
                                               are as impactful as possible: we should aim for negative levels of
                                               long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable
                                               levels. This target should be reached by reducing our own emissions
                                               and not by using international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions. I would like the Climate Commission to be sufficiently
                                               resourced so that it can gather the evidence it needs to provide
                                               advice, and to publicly publish the advice. I'd like to see this on a
                                               website, where we can also see what action the government has
                                               chosen to take based on the advice, and how effective the Climate

                                               Commission believes that action will be / has been in achieving the
                                               advised goal / reducing emissions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities;
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations; and acts with
                                               urgency to protect the most vulnerable in New Zealand, the Pacific,

                                               and around the world from the effects of climate change.
Further comments
