Name                                            melanie miller

Email





A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need an ambitious legally binding target: net zero emissions by
important because...                            2040. Because its necessary to act swiftly to reduce greenhouse gas
                                                emissions and avoid a global tipping point

Long-term target                                I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                                gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                                approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                                as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                                while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                                should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                                international carbon credits.
                                                Environmental protection should have the highest priority.

Climate Commission                              I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                                that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                                final decisions.

Adaptation                                      I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                                Local councils should identify all land areas and buildings that will be
                                                subject to climate-related risks, and make that information publicly

                                                available online and in LIM reports.
                                                In general, new buildings and development should be prohibited on
                                                land that is likely to experience storm surges, flooding or significant
                                                damage arising from climate change

Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                                It is important to address all types of greenhouse gases, including

                                                nitrous oxide, methane, HFCs and other fluorinated gases.
                                                Even short-lived GHGs can have signficiant effect on climate, and
                                                could trigger a tipping point.
                                                The target must cover all sources of emissions, including agriculture,
                                                transport, industrial activities, refrigeration/air conditioning sectors,

                                                waste, and actions that will help individual citizens to reduce their
                                                own GHG footprint.
                                                Activities should include significant GHG reduction actions that are
                                                not often addressed, such as:
                                                (a) Government policies/actions that help consumers to consume

                                                fewer goods, and avoid throw-away products (eg. establishing
                                                durability standards and obligatory recycling requirements for
                                                household appliances; banning single-use plastic bags; promoting
                                                standardised re-usable containers for drinks and food products, etc.)
                                                (b) Government policies/actions that help citizens to have fewer

                                                children, i.e. strong government support for family planning and birth
                                                control. Each person born in an industrialised country has a far larger
                                                carbon footprint than each person living in a developing country.
                                                Reducing the number of births in industrialised countries will have a
                                                significant impact on future global emissions.
