Name                                           Alexander Stuart Titmuss

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Because it will impact every aspect of my adult life. As a 19 year old
important because...                           climate change will be a defining factor in my life and a sustainable
                                               future is beneficial to both me and future generations.

                                               I personally would still want to raise kids in a planet torn apart by
                                               rising tides etc, but i know plenty of people who certainly wouldn't. I
                                               don't know the ins and outs of this law but i believe that the way we
                                               are currently heading as a planet can only last so long before
                                               catastrophe, and if this law helps prevent that which my girlfriend

                                               assures me it will then well that sounds good to me.

                                               Also on a more personal note I've always wanted to visit Antarctica
                                               and when i can actually afford to go it'd be nice if it wasn't a just a
                                               big mound of dirt with some dehydrated penguins on it.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
