Name                                           Bobbi Laing

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The Zero Carbon Act is very important if we wish to continue to live
important because...                           on the planet earth with a secure future. If we do not diminish our
                                               carbon outputs through enforcement of legislation that ensures this,

                                               the weather will become increasingly erratic. This means more floods
                                               that will lower our earning capacity as our agriculture industry
                                               outputs are lowered as well as the destruction of peoples homes that
                                               are too near waterways or the sea. The variety of species on earth
                                               which contribute to the stability of our ecology will diminish as their

                                               habitats will be lost. Insects which carry disease will also increase
                                               with the warming of the climate and add to our health costs. Erratic
                                               weather also means more droughts so this puts water supplies for
                                               humans and animals at risk. Everything will cost more adding to our
                                               already over burdened poverty group. The science reports have

                                               warned us of this increasingly dangerous trend of our planet, our
                                               only home, of over heating. Please enact the zero carbon act now
                                               with limits set for the next decade, not any later. We are running out
                                               of time.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2030. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               We need to leave a worthwhile legacy to our children and
                                               grandchildren - a legacy of hope for a sustainable future.
