Name                                           Emerson Yeoman

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I don’t want NZ to be left behind and have to make drastic painful
important because...                           adjustments in years to come because we haven’t acted soon
                                               enough. This is the right time for meaningful action to reduce our

                                               emmissions and I’m keen to see us embrace this challenge and
                                               opportunity with no further delay.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               It is high time agricultural emmissions were addressed along with all

                                               our other major emission sources such as transport and buildings.
                                               However I don’t want to see legislation that takes a superficial and
                                               blunt view about how to tackle methane emissions from agriculture
                                               which assumes because livestock emit lots of methane therefore
                                               agricultural systems are inherently high sources of greenhouse

                                               gases. While this is undoubtedly the case with our current prevailing
                                               farming practices which are based on unsustainable application of
                                               synthetic fertilisers in order to maintain unsustainably high stock
                                               numbers and at the same time are killing our valuable soils. However
                                               developments in regenerative agricultural methods provide huge

                                               opportunities to restore soil health and system ecological function,
                                               and in doing so sequester huge amounts of greenhouse gases. I
                                               would like to see this legislation used as an opportunity to set a new
                                               direction of regenerative agricultural practices in New Zealand,
                                               putting an end to the high-input, high-footprint model we have been

                                               trapped in since the end of WWII. The need to tackle agricultural
                                               emmissions through this legislation provides an enormous
                                               opportunity for transforming agriculture in New Zealand and I
                                               encourage the government to embrace this. I would recommend
                                               looking into the work of soil and agricultural experts such as John

                                               King at Succession Ltd, and Nicole Masters for further information
                                               about how settings in agricultural policy might best be aligned to
                                               achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
