Name                                           Nina Atkinson

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Hello, I'm Nina. I'm 26. I've been worrying about climate change
important because...                           since I was 14. I joined Generation Zero when I was 19. When I was
                                               in my early twenties I learned about the UK Climate Change Act.

                                               When I was 24 we used this as a blueprint to launch the campaign
                                               for and design of the Zero Carbon Act. Right now I am proud beyond
                                               words our government has come on board with the effort to get New
                                               Zealand to net zero emissions.


                                               I 100% believe in New Zealand's ability to take on the long term
                                               challenge of creating a low carbon economy in a way that inspires
                                               and motivates the rest of the world. Despite the delay in addressing
                                               this urgent issue I believe in our global capacity to adapt and build a
                                               non-polluting world that will keep the climate safe for future

                                               generations.

                                               This matters deeply. To everyone working on this, I congratulate you
                                               and urge you to use your position in this moment in history to make
                                               this law as strong and ambitious as you can. We will look back on

                                               these moments that define how we dealt with the monumental
                                               challenge that is climate change. Please make this a moment in
                                               history we will be proud of.

                                               This issue has absorbed my life and thoughts for years but I don't

                                               have a great deal to say here besides these two things:

                                               Firstly, I completely support the submission made by Generation
                                               Zero on all points.


                                               Secondly, in 2011 while studying I went to a Generation Zero talk in
                                               a lecture theatre at Victoria University. Max Harris (now an
                                               acclaimed NZ author and thinker) was one of the people speaking
                                               about the need for and possibility of hope in the face of climate
                                               change. But he started by asking how many of the students in that

                                               room had considered not having children because of climate change.
                                               Almost everyone in that room put up their hand. Let that sink in. A
                                               room full of mostly 18 and 19 year olds - most of them too afraid of
                                               what the world would look like to want to raise families in it. I don't
                                               know how better to communicate the deep importance of this law,

                                               and the deep fear of the future that is present in my generation.

                                               In this moment our future is in your hands and we hope that you use
                                               this power to create a bold and future-proofed law.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               Climate impacts are here now and particularly our most vulnerable
                                               communities must be supported to adapt.
Climate justice                                 A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                                Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                                avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                                We need a long term plan to protect our communities. I look forward

                                                to a law and a plan that brings everyone along.

                                                I intend to use my skills and enthusiasm to help New Zealand
                                                innovate to meet this challenge. I look forward to this law creating a
                                                world where this kind of energy can be put to good use.


                                                And as someone who has put sweat and tears into campaigning for
                                                good climate policy in New Zealand what else can I say but - don't
                                                mess it up!


                                                Thank you for the opportunity to submit. Nga mihi nui - Nina.
