Name                                          Paul Cottam

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is A Zero Carbon Act is essential to address greenhouse gas emissions
important because...                          that are the main driver of climate change. Left unchecked we risk
                                              runaway climate change given carbon emissions and feedback loops

                                              that further drive climate change to the likely extent of destroying
                                              our habitat and of course humanity, not to mention many other
                                              species of fauna and flora.

Long-term target                              Whilst I support the target of reducing total greenhouse gases to net
                                              zero, 2050 is far too late and I do not support this time period. As
                                              evidenced by how climate change is tracking, e.g. unprecedented

                                              rate of ice-cap melt (the canary in the coal mine given once melted
                                              runaway climate change accelerates, e.g. latent heat of ice melt then
                                              quickly driving ocean warming) I strongly support 2030.
                                              I also support taking a science-based approach to ensure our efforts
                                              to reduce emissions are as impactful as possible: we should aim for

                                              negative levels of long-lived gases, while reducing short-lived gases
                                              to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by reducing our
                                              own emissions and not by using international carbon credits. This
                                              includes bringing all sectors of the economy, including agricultural,
                                              into the realm of a Zero Carbon Act.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions. Such experts need to include health and social
                                              scientists given the uneven and inequitable impacts of climate
                                              change.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations. All sectors of

                                              society must be involved and must contribute.
Further comments
