Name                                           Rachael Higgs

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is The proposed Zero Carbon Act is vitally important because global
important because...                           warming is already beginning to cause disadvantages in our country
                                               and the surrounding Pacific Island countries. Sea level rises will result

                                               in serious problems for our many coastal settlements in NZ and the
                                               Pacific countries. Our glaciers are disappearing, a wonderful tourist
                                               attraction both locally and internationally. Our weather is becoming
                                               more unpredictable - with spent tropical cyclones already causing
                                               severe damage environmentally, socially and economically. Rainfall

                                               is now often heavier due to warmer seas enabling the uptake of
                                               more moisture from the seas around us, so leading to flooding. It is
                                               possible that mosquitoes that carry malaria or other types of
                                               diseases could arrive in New Zealand and there will be many other
                                               consequences too.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits. This latter is absolutely vital.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi, ensures a just transition for workers and communities, and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               New Zealand cannot afford to delay in passing a comprehensive Zero
                                               Carbon Act that will achieve zero carbon emissions by 2050. Many,
                                               many years ago I wrote to a Government Minister or the person

                                               responsible for this type of legislation, or perhaps to Nelson's MP to
                                               suggest that we needed to act or we would land up with ourselves
                                               deep in water with the raised "rescue me" arm up. pleading for help.
                                               It is sad to think that we are on the way to this already. We have
                                               known for a long time that action was needed.


                                               We must accept that our lives will need to change to enable them to
                                               continue. As someone commented, we will get used to it (the
                                               changes that come).
