Name                                           Murray Porter

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It gives humanity an opportunity to value planet earth our ultimate
important because...                           home and provider of the 3 essentials for all life oxgyen , food and
                                               water. It will help this generation the last generation that can protect

                                               nature so that future generations may have a fighting chance to
                                               survive.
                                               My grand-daughter is 10 , i knew when she was born that one day
                                               she will ask what did you do to help prevent climate change. This will
                                               add to many things we have personally done , ie drive zero

                                               emissions cars , planted 100’s of trees , plant based diet , earth
                                               home etc. It will be another tool in the box to make sustainable
                                               lifestyle/business practices compulsory. It will help give more hope
                                               that we valued our children and grand childrens future and that
                                               nature can re generate and we live a more balanced life. It will help

                                               nail the corporate polluters to the wall where they belong.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               Personally i would like to see zero carbon (or even negative) by 2040
                                               and believe it is doable. However it will take strong , decisive

                                               leadership and fast exponentially grown action from a diverse range
                                               of communities of dedicated people with a clear vision to make this a
                                               reality. Make no mistake the challenge for many decades to come
                                               surviving , not lifestyle. will be new reality. I am 54
