Name                                          Matthew Edmond

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I believe climate change is the single biggest issue currently facing
important because...                          humanity. The effects of this problem are not some far flung
                                              hypothetical future scenario, but will directly have an impact on my

                                              generation, and the generation to follow. In order to reach the goals
                                              of the Paris Agreement and preserve some quality of life in future
                                              decades, action needs to be immediate and comprehensive.

                                              Even if Paris Agreement goals are reached, New Zealand is still

                                              directly threatened by rising sea levels and extreme weather events,
                                              so any legislation needs to go above and beyond the globally agreed
                                              targets if only for the preservation of our country.

                                              As a nation we won't have a better opportunity than right now to

                                              alter the course of climate change so we need to do as much as
                                              possible to not mess this up.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
