Name                                           Jill Greathead

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need to urgently create awareness of the need to change our
important because...                           lives to reduce the impact of climate change so that future
                                               generations can live on a planet in peace and oneness.

                                               This Act needs to be legislation that is understood by everyone - it
                                               needs to be compassionate and empowering for all people in all
                                               communities.
                                               Our people are getting worn out by ‘how legislation is being
                                               delivered’ which is making us feel disempowered and fearful.

                                               There is only one way of solving this complex issue - that is to put
                                               hope into the minds and hearts of all people and empower them to
                                               respect this planet, to work together and unite as humanity.

Long-term target                               I support a citizen-centered approach to a zero-carbon future by
                                               2050. This needs to incorporate the principles of localism which
                                               empowers all people from a grassroots approach.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of ‘people who care’ to provide advice, create

                                               guidelines and encourage a cultural change for a carbon-free future.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act
                                               providing that it is done in an empowering not bullying manner.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair for all ensuring a just
                                               transition for all including businesses, local governments and
                                               workers.
                                               If this becomes a piece of legislation that is focused on ‘money’ it will

                                               be a huge challenge with conflict. Changing it to an issue that is
                                               dependent on life-style and cultural change will be the key to its
                                               success.

Further comments                               I would like this legislation to be very different in the 'how' it is
                                               carried out. This is about cultural change, not legal domination.
                                               It is not about costing taxpayers money in red tape - rules,
                                               monitoring, compliance and regulation.

                                               It is not about ending up with a massive document that people will
                                               rebel against, people will not read and people will not understand.
                                               It is not about causing fear, stress, blame and liability on our people.
                                               It is about giving 'Power to the People' - Kiwi Power - let's show the
                                               rest of the world how it can be managed by the people of New

                                               Zealand and not controlled by our bureaucracies.
