Name                                          Norman Owen

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is With the ZCL our environment may have the opportunity to go back
important because...                          to its natural state the change is too fast and nothing can evolve fast
                                              enough to survive too much of any one substance in a concentrated

                                              area has negative effect even natural occurring substances, In times
                                              of trouble water becomes the most important survival implement
                                              and as it stands my river Otiria stream that runs behind my father's
                                              home is so badly polluted no Tuna live in it and if you swim in it your
                                              skin turns brown we know is't because of our swap lands filled in,

                                              dairy farming, dumping and planting of pine and there is no law that
                                              is going to change that in my lifetime MAJOR RESEARCH is needed
                                              not only the kind that is commissioned from Otago or overseas but a
                                              institute of research in Northland

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an "LOCALLY SOURCED" independent
                                              Climate Commission that is made up of experts and provides advice,

                                              but does not make final decisions. When this group is mandated they
                                              must provide training for people in the area to learn and eventually
                                              carry the mandate themselves.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                              Beef & Lamb industries, Pine and industrial illegal dumping are
                                              driven by the greed for profits Ministers should be more accurate in

                                              saying what is better for the country economics vs nature, when Mrs
                                              Ardern put a hold on offshore drilling I was dancing in the streets
                                              "WELL DONE" please keep the ball rolling I will work on initiatives like
                                              the Northland University/Research facility and engage in the
                                              Independent Climate Commission. Thank you.
