Name

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is ... because I want to see New Zealand, and the individuals who carry
important because...                          the power to make the decisions about its future, on the right side of
                                              history. Because I want to see my grandchildren's eyes light up at

                                              the diversity and beauty of our land. Because money and greed with
                                              only destroy what we have been gifted, and to find happiness we
                                              have to listen to what our conscience commands us to do - save our
                                              planet. Our children and grandchildren will judge us for the decisions
                                              we make today – let us one day dream we can look into their eyes

                                              without shame.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                              I object to the information contained in this submission being
                                              published on any website or otherwise in the public domain under

                                              my name - this includes any summary of submissions that the
                                              Ministry or any other organization may publish.
