Name                                           Thomas Stonehouse

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I want a future for all the people in my generation, generations
important because...                           before, and generations to come, which allows them to thrive and
                                               enjoy their lives to the fullest. To ensure this, as a planet we need to

                                               keep the warming of Earth below 1.5°C to prevent irreversible
                                               changes to our climate (with all the knock-on effects this will have),
                                               as per the Paris agreement. NZ is small by global standards but we
                                               must do our part. Actually, more than this, we must become leaders,
                                               and show the rest of the world what an environmentally responsible,

                                               greenhouse-gas negative, inclusive, diverse, and culturally sensitive
                                               country looks like. Part of the journey to become this country is to
                                               put these things into law, and this is what the Zero Carbon Act will
                                               achieve.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               I'd like to add a massive shoutout to all the people that have worked
                                               on this act, putting in countless hours of their own time plus blood,
                                               sweat, tears, and probably craft beer into it, while the rest of us go
                                               about our days feeling slightly guilty about having an extended

                                               shower because it's cold. Here's to the people that are first to get off
                                               their arses and actually do something about it when the world needs
                                               saving.
