Name                                          Shelley Woods

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is I believe that if we do not implement the Zero Carbon Act in its most
important because...                          ambitious form we risk the destruction of our planet in the sense of it
                                              being inhabitable to the great majority of living creatures that we

                                              share earth with. We are already dealing with the consequences of
                                              climate change and each year the consequences will exponentially
                                              increase. The importance of the Zero Carbon Act is that it provides
                                              the commitment to New Zealand to become a net carbon zero
                                              economy and therefore provides each sector of the economy a clear

                                              long term signal of their obligation to work towards this goal. The
                                              value of the Zero Carbon Act in my opinion is that this clear long
                                              term signal will enable the transformation of our economy towards a
                                              sustainable, resilient and hopefully socially just economy. As a
                                              younger member of our country, and a person who climate change is

                                              a reality that I will have to deal with for my life, I ask that the Zero
                                              Climate Act be implemented in its strongest form possible for the
                                              future of our people. We must act now and we cannot solve this
                                              problem with halve measures.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
