Name                                          Alissa Thompson

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Our world is hurtling towards disaster environmentally, and there is
important because...                          so much against us to fix it. We need ambitious and drastic action
                                              now to remedy this, and supporting this act is an essential step

                                              towards this. Our environment MUST come first; without it there is
                                              nothing left. Already we experience increasingly severe weather
                                              events that cost us, and we are beginning to gain our first (of many)
                                              environmental refugees. New Zealand has the opportunity to be one
                                              of the world leaders in this area if we are ambitious and recognise

                                              what is most important. And it's not just about us; it's our
                                              biodiversity and the world around us that is already tragically fragile.
                                              We need this, now.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
