Name                                          Teresa Tooley

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need to respect our environment and make changes now before
important because...                          we it is too late for future generations. I would really like a review of
                                              the building industry. I'd like better standards to be set which include

                                              using sustainable materials and higher R rating values in new homes
                                              in line with European standards. The costs will come down if more
                                              people build in this way. As someone who is looking into building a
                                              house I have been appalled at New Zealand standards of building
                                              codes in terms of energy efficiency and the practices which lead to 4

                                              tonnes of waste on average per house. The kiwibuild houses which
                                              are being built for the most vulnerable in our society but being built
                                              at the standard building code is a letdown. These people cannot
                                              afford the energy costs so will be living in new cold houses. We are
                                              doing them a disservice and in the long run not saving the country

                                              any money. Could we please be more forward-thinking nation and
                                              make the right decisions now for the future of our society?

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments
