Name                                           Rosie Muir

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Our politicians have twiddled their thumbs for long enough, and this
important because...                           problem won't be solved without legal intervention. We should have
                                               had the political willpower to introduce a law like this 10 years ago

                                               (at least).

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions. The appointment of experts to this commission
                                               should be as non-political as possible, meaning the exclusion of any
                                               individual who suggests that climate change is either not happening

                                               or is not anthropogenic.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                               This should include tackling the tough issues, like coastal property
                                               ownership/development. In Christchurch, our council was making an
                                               attempt to start on this problem within the District Plan before
                                               central government removed most of the Natural Hazards and

                                               Coastal Erosion provisions due to backlash from property owners.
                                               This problem is far too important to be simply removed from
                                               consultation because of a backlash. If there are backlashes, they
                                               should be resolved through conversation, not ignored.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations. A lot of costs have
                                               already been passed on to my generation (millennials). It's about
                                               time those in power and with the means spent some time and
                                               resources on resolving these intergenerational inequities, the biggest
                                               of those set to be the catastrophic effects of climate change.

Further comments                               A Zero Carbon Act should be adopted in its strongest form, without
                                               watering things down to satisfy polluters (especially agricultural

                                               polluters). People will complain that they haven't had enough
                                               warning, but climate change has been a well known phenomenon for
                                               decades now, and prevalent within media for the last 10-15 years (at
                                               least). If these people could not predict that humanity would act on
                                               an issue we've been talking about acting on for literally decades,

                                               then we should not grant them as much sympathy as we have been
                                               historically. Business leaders often talk about how businesses need
                                               to be agile, flexible and change with the times, yet when it comes to
                                               climate change they seem to excuse the same irrational, head-i-
                                               -the-sand behaviors.
