Name                                           Gloria Sei-Mark

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It will ensure everyone's accountability to climate change-
important because...                           individuals, families, communities, and most important- businesses!
                                               No waiting to see who will take the step first with risk of reduced

                                               profits due to cost of changes, or risk competitive advantage in
                                               market if due to pricing changes

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                               It's important that climate change planning doesnt have a negative

                                               impact on low/middle class NZers who already struggle with rising
                                               costs today!
                                               It's inevitable that costs to consumers will increase as a result of
                                               changes, so please consider solutions that will mitigate price
                                               increases for people who really just cant afford to choose the more

                                               sustainable options in their lifestyle! I'm all for protection of our
                                               environment, but we can't leave society worse off in the process-
                                               solutions need to cover both those bases.
                                               Petrol taxes is one good example- the govt should ensure there are
                                               viable/affordable alternatives to using petrol cars first, before

                                               increasing costs to keep using them(we're already struggling here
                                               mate) maybe make another change to AT public transport
                                               times/routes- some people dont have public transport access that is
                                               close to their workplace, or is unsafe for late shifts in secluded areas,
                                               or not suitable to carry work gear in.. etc.

                                               Also, please please heavily subsidise Electric vehicles (and electricity
                                               costs) I would happily make the switch if I could afford one (or if I
                                               could find one with enough seats for my 5+ family!)
                                               Regulation needs to go hand-in-hand with social support for the
                                               transition!
