Name                                          Rochelle Judkins

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Our planet has the natural resources that, when treated with respect
important because...                          and care, can be efficiently and effectly renewable. However, we are
                                              not treating our planet and natural resources with respect. Instead,

                                              we are treating them as if they are in limitless supply and without
                                              personal responsibility. For the future health of our planet, and the
                                              wellbeing amd prosperity of the generations to come, we MUST have
                                              a shift in consciousness. We MUST front up to our responsibility as
                                              the dominant species on this planet. We MUST make the move

                                              toward sustainability of our natural resources, and keeping our
                                              planet healthy. The Zero Carbon Act is a step in a good direction; the
                                              right direction.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
