Name                                          Sam Hood

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Many say we are too small to make a difference, but the entire world
important because...                          is made up of individuals waiting for others to make the big moves.
                                              We need to break that cycle, and hopefully influence others along

                                              the way. Generally, I beleive society isn't taking this potentially very
                                              dangerous situation seriously - there are so many changes we can
                                              make, such as to our transport systems (cycling, public transport),
                                              which could drastically cut emissions whilst improving the economy
                                              and quality of life rather than costing it. I personally think 2050 is too

                                              far out and that we can reasonably act faster though

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero before 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities
                                              where it is practical; and avoids passing on the costs to future

                                              generations. Cost should not be taken as simply financial, but should
                                              include cost to quality of life also. Ultimately, diluting this legislation
                                              too much for any group, will represent failing that group, amongst us
                                              all, in the longer term, so should be balanced carefully

Further comments                              Much of this submission was based on the suggested Submission of
                                              Generation Zero, however after doing some of my own research, and
                                              reading carefully/editing the submission where I felt necessary, this

                                              represents my own views
