Name                                          Jason Boberg

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Climate change disproportionately and advisedly effects People with
important because...                          Disability in Aotearoa and abroad. People with Disability's must be
                                              woven in to all current and future bills, treaties and mechanisms that

                                              address Climate change and sustainability as key stakeholders.

                                              Climate Change is inherently a Disabilities issue and we are being
                                              left out of the conversation, this is in direct violation of the UNCRPD
                                              and the UNFCCC Paris agreement.

                                              Nothing about us without out us.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, and people with
                                              relevant lived experience ( PWD and Maori and gender diversity) but
                                              does not make final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

                                              Climate change disproportionately and advisedly effects People with
                                              Disability in Aotearoa and abroad. People with Disability's must be
                                              woven in to all current and future bills, treaties and mechanisms that

                                              address Climate change and sustainability as key stakeholders.


                                              Climate Change is inherently a Disabilities issue and we are being
                                              left out of the conversation, this is in direct violation of the UNCRPD

                                              and the UNFCCC Paris agreement.
Further comments                              Nothing about us without out us.
