Name                                           JLJohnson Johnson

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is It would set a target set in law, based on copious, accurate scientific
important because...                           research to meet NZ's international commitment the Paris 2015
                                               Agreement and our own responsibilities to our "green and clean"

                                               image that has been significantly tarnished by the Dairy industry and
                                               our dependence on fossil fuels.Cross party support has to happen. All
                                               areas and sectors of NZ society need to be pro-active in transitioning
                                               to a low carbon economy that requires an early rather than a late
                                               response.We owe this to future generations so they can thrive.

Long-term target                               I support a Zero Carbon target of reducing total greenhouse gases to

                                               net zero by 2050 or even before. I also support taking an evidence-
                                               based, scientific approach and co-operation with our Pacific
                                               neighbours to ensure our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
                                               are effective: in the process, we should aim to stay well within 1.5
                                               degrees C emission budget to limit global warming by reducing short

                                               and long-lived gases to sustainable levels. The 2050 zero-emissions
                                               target should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by
                                               using international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of health,global warming and scientific experts,
                                               including iwi, Pacifica and community/local government
                                               representatives, as well as accomplished Science communcators who

                                               provide researched advice to government, who then manage the
                                               application of the law for groups that do not comply with
                                               requirements.I do not support industrial interests being on the
                                               Commission.All Commissioners should be knowledgeable about
                                               equity issues in order to bring about wide-spread social change.The

                                               Commission also needs to monitor and report on progress towards
                                               zero-emission goals.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation to climate change being included in
                                               the Zero Carbon Act but it would take more commissioners to act in
                                               these focus areas .Equity issues should be upheld in this process so
                                               that financial gain from status-quo, health-harming practices are

                                               addressed transparently and thoroughly.Adaptation work should not
                                               take away the Commission's top-priority climate change mitigation
                                               role.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               It is now urgent that we take up our NZ and global citizen
                                               responsibilities for the targeted zero-emissions target, set through

                                               the NZ Carbon Emissions Act, to reduce greenhouse gases that
                                               otherwise undermine our future capacity to survive on our one and
                                               only planet. To leave such climate mitigation action any later, will
                                               escalate the problem beyond our scientific, creative and financial
                                               capacity to address pollution issues with success. Hence the urgent

                                               need to work on a "sharp emissions decline" through appropriate
                                               legislation. "The later we start: the harder it gets". (NZ Climate and
                                               Health Council newsletter.)
