Name                                           Sasha Francis

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is aiming to reduce total greenhouse gases to net zero is a
important because...                           fundamental step towards a necessary re-configuration of
                                               contemporary society in line with the immense challenge of climate

                                               change. Indeed, climate change is the greatest challenge of all
                                               human time, with consequences of devastation that reach far beyond
                                               ourselves as a species-being and into future.

                                               The passing of the Zero Carbon Act into law would boldly enshrine a

                                               legal commitment to transformation in the face on this crisis, thus
                                               powerfully demonstrating how the existing political and juridical
                                               order of Aotearoa New Zealand can move to respond to this
                                               immense challenge in world-leading ways. Further, the passing of the
                                               Zero Carbon Act into law is an important enshrinement and

                                               commitment to the values of environmental protection, responsibility
                                               and guardianship of our beautiful environment, here at home, and of
                                               the fundamental necessity to care, protect and help sustain for the
                                               Earth, now and for the future. These values of environmental
                                               protection and inter-generational care MUST be situated as of

                                               greater necessity and importance than short-term economic
                                               concerns.

                                               A failure to pass the Zero Carbon Act is a failure to care for future
                                               generations and for the criticality of our environment to the

                                               possibility of life itself. Further still, a failure to pass the Zero Carbon
                                               act is a demonstration of juridical impotency; it is now a necessity
                                               that such a law is passed.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,

                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and

                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               Please, please consider the fundamental necessity of passing the
                                               Zero Carbon Act.
