Name                                           Richard John Swan

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Carbon is a very important resource when it acts beneficially in the
important because...                           natural carbon cycle by maintaining most of of the planet in a non-
                                               frozen state. When there is a net surplus of carbon, as has been the

                                               case for decades, it acts as a pollutant in the atmosphere and
                                               oceans, creating global warming, climate chaos, ocean acidification,
                                               sea inundations of coastal areas, massive food shortages, massive
                                               extinction events, economic failure, resource wars, mass exoduses of
                                               people and animals, etc etc. This needs immediate correction for

                                               people and all life to survive on this planet.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               to rubber-stamp what is already well known to make a strong
                                               statement, and set the recommended targets stated. Then to take
                                               direct action which has been what has been lacking This commission
                                               would be made up of experts and suitably educated public. The

                                               suitably educated public include many people who have broad
                                               working or / and broad academic knowledge. Most of what is needed
                                               is already well established and action is decades late in being fully
                                               implemented. I support the most ambitious target of reducing total
                                               greenhouse gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a

                                               science-based approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions
                                               are as effective as possible, namely we should aim for negative
                                               levels of long-lived gases, like CO_2, while reducing short-lived gases
                                               like CH_4 to sustainable levels. This target should be reached by
                                               reducing our own emissions and not by using international carbon

                                               credits. By doing these things and many others, we will retard and
                                               later reduce our carbonised atmosphere and oceans. Let's have
                                               some real action, and see what happens. By all means set a target
                                               like to one mooted, and THEN just ACT with DETERMINATION to get it
                                               to happen.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

                                               My suggestions and others not mentioned yet would need to be
                                               implemented without too much delay. We cannot afford to be
                                               primarily “Politically Correct” about the number of people living on
                                               Earth right now. There is an urgency to having small families, as we
                                               are outstripping the resources of the planet, and we are approaching

                                               the use of 2 Earth's as I type. That just creates more entropy as large
                                               planetary civilisations act as massive heat engines. There is an
                                               urgent need for less consumption and less waste of resources and
                                               energy. The NZ population is small on the global scale, but it is
                                               important to be part of the global conversation. My

                                               “deCarbonisation” poinys (1) to (9) raised in my further comments
                                               below, and others, are part of this adaptation process also. There are
                                               more components to this as well, which I do not have time to discuss
                                               in detail right now.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
Further comments                                 There are many issues needed to arrest the growth in the Carbon
                                                 concentrations in atmosphere and oceans, and here are some of the

                                                 main ones.

                                                 (1) Smaller families : We know that the main cause of "climate
                                                 change" is that a population of nearly 8 billion human is an excessive
                                                 number compared to all other warm blooded land animals. About

                                                 98% of the mass all such animals are either human or related to
                                                 human farming activity. Only 2% of the mass is wildlife. Slowing and
                                                 levelling off the human population is the most important step
                                                 through birth control education and proper family planning.
                                                 Contraceptives should be free to low income people.


                                                 (2) Reduce and eliminate Resource Wars = : On a planetary scale
                                                 this is are the biggest business on Earth, especially by the "West"
                                                 and its opponents and that may lessen with a slowing global
                                                 population. These resource wars are strongly linked to the Fossil Fuel

                                                 Industry, the Financial Petro- Dollar Banking elites ( FIAT currency ),
                                                 and the Miltary Industrial Complex.

                                                 (3) Clean Energy : Other helpful steps are the switching to clean
                                                 renewable energy on a large scale and the use of non-fossil fuel
                                                 based energy technologies. Nuclear still has its problems, though.


                                                 (4) Carbon Sequestration : The sequestration of carbon in
                                                 commercial and native forests is helpful.

                                                 (5) Ban single-use plastics : The lessening use of one-time plastic

                                                 items would be of great benefit, as they damage all marine life,
                                                 which occupies about 70% of the surface area of our planet. The
                                                 oceans are most important in the carbon cycle.
