Name                                          Hamish Reid Reid

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Ethical obligations to pull at least our own weight in the global effort
important because...                          to reduce greenhouse gas emissions aside, parts of New Zealand's
                                              future are dependent on us implementing appropriate measures.

                                              Many of our low lying coastal towns will, in the absence of major
                                              global change and/or adaptive measures, become uninsurable or
                                              uninhabitable in the coming decades. Our two largest exports,
                                              tourism and dairy, are sold to the world as clean, green and pure
                                              (notwithstanding that many NZers would disagree with that

                                              characterisation of NZ's current environment and in particular with
                                              regard to the impacts of tourism). This represents an opportunity for
                                              NZ to authentically position itself as a clean, green and pure nation -
                                              and leverage that to our advantage going forward.


                                              This is the time to look beyond a 3 year election cycle and short term
                                              economic benefit and implement measures that we will be able to
                                              look back on with pride 20,30,40 years from now.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful

                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o

                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
