Name                                           Chrissy Emeny

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need to start progressing towards active goals that will cause a
important because...                           change to our global behavior regarding climate issues. We may
                                               have already gone beyond repairing the damage that's been caused

                                               but hopefully we can slow down warming by our actions no matter
                                               how small they seemed at the time. Its genuinely a concerning
                                               thought that our ecosystem is heading towards a change that we
                                               have never encountered. Its not the future I want and its hard to not
                                               feel completely helpless to change this situation when the people

                                               who make the decisions will barely live to see it. This act is a
                                               significant step in both the attitudes to the issue and action against
                                               it. The most worthwhile things are rarely financially viable. We need
                                               to start prioritizing what is really important, the future we all deserve
                                               to have.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                               international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                               I am really proud of all the people who rallied together to make this
                                               happen. They are invested in seeing this succeed for our collective
                                               benefit. I hope it will be considered that they should remain included

                                               and involved in the act.
