Name                                          Nick Mouat

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is a) it is a message to NZ society of cross political commitment to
important because...                          address climate change; b) it is a message to the global community
                                              of NZ's commitment and allows us to apply pressure to others to act

                                              themselves; c) it provides NZ industry, and our trade partners, with
                                              clarity around the economic rules to address climate change. That
                                              clarity will help industry respond in a positive manner that can
                                              unleash technology and commercial opportunities, and better
                                              prepares NZ for future global economic scenarios.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                              international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                              to depoliticize this critical issue. Thus that commission should be
                                              made up of experts who provide scientific advise to the elected
                                              representatives and clear digestible communication of the same to
                                              all sectors of the population.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.
                                              This is an essential step to enable local bodies and other large public

                                              and private sector bodies to act on targets and talk.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
