Name                                          Hana Maihi

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is We need intergenerational environmental, social, cultural and
important because...                          economic justice. If our generation doesn't act now we are being
                                              irresponsible and reckless with the wellbeing of our environment and

                                              the wellbeing of generations to come.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target

                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits. I support the inclusion and intentional
                                              use of Maori bodies of knowledge, tikanga, the reo, frameworks and
                                              methods to inform decision making by and outside of the Climate
                                              Commission and Zero Carbon Act initiatives.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts especially and provides advice, but does

                                              not make final decisions. Expertise that priorities indigenous led and
                                              capacity building processes. I support the full and effective
                                              participation of Maori on the climate commission and the honoring
                                              and inclusion of indigenous bodies of knowledge and ways of
                                              understanding the environment and climate change issues.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

                                              I support equitable and just transition for indigenous and maori
                                              communities in regard to adaptation plans and mitigation

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations. Ensures full and
                                              effective participation of Māori in decision making, governance and

                                              implementation.
Further comments                              I support the resourcing of building capacity and providing mandate

                                              for youth (rangatahi) led action in regard to climate change. I
                                              support the effective participation of youth (rangatahi) in climate
                                              change discussions, decision making and implementation.
