Name                                          Dr. Jan RAYMOND

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is to ensure the sustainable health of our children and whanau in the
important because...                          sustainable ecologies of Aotearoa New Zealand

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                              international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments                              I would recommend that the government support the widespread
                                              establishment of Hemp cultivation organically because of its
                                              phenomenal carbon sequestration ability and the many uses from
                                              the plant, from food to bio-oils to plastics with a growing

                                              international demand. This could revitalize impoverished areas of the
                                              country such as Northland and the Maori living there. Any reduction
                                              of poverty ripples through to improved child health and less
                                              demands on the health care system.


                                              I would also support the government to move away from current
                                              intensive dairy industry which is not only using energy unsustainably
                                              adding to the carbon load by evaporating the milk to powder, using
                                              palmkern oil which is destroying Borneo's forests increasing carbon,
                                              and which is also fueling a infant formula boom to the detriment of

                                              China's babies health and polluting our rivers. Dairy herds should be
                                              reduced and replaced with the sheep milk industry which would meet
                                              a growing market for sheep's cheese and other sheep milk products,
                                              a healthier less allergic alternative to cows milk , and with less
                                              intensive pressure on the ecosytem
