Name                                           India Logan-Riley

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is There needs to an accountability mechanism that holds future
important because...                           leaders to account to be responsible rangatira.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.


                                               The target and its budget should also incorporate principles of
                                               climate justice, where if the emissions reduction target can be
                                               adjusted to reach it sooner. This would be taking into account the
                                               research that is increasingly demonstrating a heightening of the

                                               severity of the impacts of climate change. This requires faster
                                               reduction earlier. Including this under aspects of climate justice also
                                               incorporates the needs of vulnerable communities who will be
                                               affected first and worst which means they have a greater need for
                                               faster emissions reductions.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission
                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make

                                               final decisions.

                                               Consultation with Te Tiriti and constitutional experts such as Moana
                                               Jackson should take place to understand what the structure of the
                                               Climate Commission would look like in a way that upholds the

                                               partnership aspect of Te Tiriti in best practice.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

                                               Any adaptation expectations needs to explicitly prioritise the needs
                                               of frontline communities, and mandate the partnership with these
                                               communities to identify what this looks like. Adaptation frameworks

                                               should also be culturally and gender responsive in a way that
                                               upholds Te Tiriti.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
