Name                                           Abby Burns

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Is there really anything more important?
important because...
                                               I'm struggling to put the enormity and significance of this act and

                                               this moment into words.

                                               Taking a step back for a moment, there are so many problems that
                                               need solving. Child poverty, our justice system, the prevalence of
                                               addiction and mental health problems, gun control, access to

                                               healthcare, sexual and domestic abuse, racism, food and water
                                               security, immigration detention centres, our current refugee crisis,
                                               the fact that conversion therapy is still a thing, this list goes on.

                                               There are so many problems that need solving.


                                               But here's the thing.

                                               All of the problems listed above (and the dozens and dozens I didn't
                                               get to) all become irrelevant if we don't tackle what I see as the

                                               biggest, most urgent one.

                                               What point is there in having a gun-free America and school
                                               shootings eliminated, or our prison population diminished and
                                               successfully rehabilitated, or ready access to health services and a

                                               mentally well population, if we don't have a planet we can live on?

                                               Climate change doesn't discriminate. It encompasses all. All
                                               problems, all countries, all people, everything. This needs solving,
                                               this needs to be ambitious, this needs to happen yesterday.


                                               This is an incredible and unavoidable opportunity to take on one of, if
                                               not the, biggest problem we have ever faced as a human race.
                                               Trusting you as our government, as well as humans that live on this
                                               earth and breathe this air, to do this right. Let's make this count.

Long-term target                               I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse
                                               gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based

                                               approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                               as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                               while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                               should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using
                                               international carbon credits.

Climate Commission                             I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                               that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                               final decisions.

Adaptation                                     I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                                A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                               Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                               avoids passing on the costs to future generations.

Further comments
