Name                                          Josh Sellens

Email

Town / City

Phone

A climate law like the Zero Carbon Act is Without a habitable planet, politics and economics and will cease to
important because...                          be of importance to any human. We should have been taking more
                                              action from earlier. Governments have to be on the same page

                                              around climate and environmental destruction and we need to lead
                                              by example with forward thinking fact and science based initiatives.
                                              Stop excessive consumerism, reduce need for excessive amounts of
                                              energy, realize money isn't going to matter if we cant grow food.
                                              Money can't buy back the extinct.

Long-term target                              I support the most ambitious target of reducing total greenhouse

                                              gases to net zero by 2050. I also support taking a science-based
                                              approach to ensure our efforts to reduce emissions are as impactful
                                              as possible: we should aim for negative levels of long-lived gases,
                                              while reducing short-lived gases to sustainable levels. This target
                                              should be reached by reducing our own emissions and not by using

                                              international carbon credits.
Climate Commission                            I support the establishment of an independent Climate Commission

                                              that is made up of experts and provides advice, but does not make
                                              final decisions.

Adaptation                                    I support a plan for adaptation being included in the Zero Carbon Act.

Climate justice                               A Zero Carbon Act must be just and fair in that it honours Te Tiriti o
                                              Waitangi; ensures a just transition for workers and communities; and
                                              avoids passing on the costs to future generations.
 Further comments                                Hmm further comments to the government, I can think of heaps!


                                                 Overpopulation is too often overlooked as a contributor to climate
                                                 change. I guess its too dangerous politically to promote
                                                 depopulation.... Sooo, fix overpopulation by empowering and
                                                 educating woman in developing countries. This is where our foreign
                                                 aid should go. Shouldn't it?


                                                 Religion and group think will be the death of us by way of allowing
                                                 irrational arguments to get in the way of science based dialogue
                                                 around environmental destruction. We must denounce all religion
                                                 and non-fact based groupthink. Especially Islam and those American

                                                 cunts in their cult of orange. (Trump facebook page has the sort of
                                                 comments demeanor I would expect on the ISIS facebook page-
                                                 --religious, groupthink, promotion of evil and an absence of truth,
                                                 rationality and listening ability. A bunch of crazy ass motherfuckers.)


                                                 Universities in many countries and NZ are just another brutal
                                                 business model. I am getting fucked for being overseas with a
                                                 student loan. I'm trying my best to earn money to pay it back but not
                                                 getting far cause I'm getting raped in the ass with interest. $3000 a
                                                 year reduces my debt by $100 a year. You fuckers.


                                                 The radical left are not helping society with their identity politics. I
                                                 support and vote for the green party, but some of the bullshit sissies
                                                 on the left make me understand why nationalites hate them. The real
                                                 problem is keeping the earth habitable. Why is there no #metoo for
                                                 climate? It should be way more important.


                                                 Beware of Jevon's Paradox when dealing with environmental
                                                 problems. Business and greed will creep in to everything.

                                                 Stop trying to earn more, consume more and destroy more.


                                                 Everyone do a sport in nature. Maybe more people will appreciate
                                                 the environment if we are more connected to it.

                                                 Don't spend too much time on social media or we're all gonna be

                                                 fucked in the head.


The message has been sent from 122.249.111.229 (Japan) at 2018-07-17 13:37:38 on Chrome 67.0.3396.87
Entry ID: 2050
